During the execution of a project, the finance team identified that they were not involved in building the business case for the project and will not approve the estimated return on investment (ROI). What should the project manager do?

A.Continue developing based on the project management plan and address the issue post-delivery.
B.Revisit the scope management plan and note this as a risk to the entire project.
C.Schedule a meeting with the product owner and finance team to agree on course corrections.
D.Revisit the communications management plan and make necessary adjustments.
Solution: C. Schedule a meeting with the product owner and finance team to agree on course corrections

The responsibility of the project manager in case of an issue during the delivery of the project is to identify the nature of the issue and plan the course correction accordingly specifically related to critical stakeholders.

The project manager cannot postpone the issue as it is very critical and therefore addressing the issue post-delivery cannot be done. Hence this option is incorrect

As evident from the question, the current scenario is an issue and not a risk. Hence noting this as a risk is incorrect.

The project manager cannot make or recommend changes to any of the Project artifacts without following the change management process. Hence this option is incorrect.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

O'Reilly Platform (No Date) //Effective Project Management Tradition Agile Extreme - Chapter Defining the 9 knowledge areas/ [Item]

| PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2018) PMI/PMI/Initiating process group/561 [Item]

A project manager learns that a few stakeholders have a disagreement regarding the results of one project deliverable.

What is the next step the project manager should take?

A.Review and analyze the project requirements document.
B.Review the approved version of a scope statement.
C.Organize a meeting with the stakeholders.
D.Modernize documented project risks and their responses.
Solution: C. Organize a meeting with the stakeholders.

The best next step for the project manager is to organize a meeting with the stakeholders. This will allow the project manager to discuss the discrepancy with the stakeholders and to try to reach an agreement. 

The other answer choices are incorrect because they are not the best next step. Reviewing, analyzing, and modernizing documents can happen during or after the meeting, but it is important to meet with the stakeholders right away to understand their differences and create harmony. 

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2018) PMI/PMI/5.3.3.1/154 [Item]

| Project management: A Systems Approach to Planning, Scheduling, and Controlling (2009) Harold Kerzner/John Wiley/8/1822 [Item]

An agile project manager is leading a new software system development project that is in the user acceptance testing phase. The project manager has received positive feedback from the majority of business stakeholders, but the IT director is dissatisfied.

What should the agile project manager do first?

A.Review previous project meeting attendance to determine the IT director's participation.
B.Analyze the requirements that were approved for the project with the IT director.
C.Discuss the IT director's concerns with the project team.
D.Collect forthright feedback from the IT director.
Solution: D. Collect forthright feedback from the IT director

The best way for the project manager to address the IT director's dissatisfaction is to collect forthright feedback from them. This will help the project manager to understand the specific concerns that the IT director has and to develop a plan to address them.

The other answer choices are not as relevant or effective. Reviewing previous project meeting minutes to determine prior feedback from the IT director seeks to look for previous discussions and does not offer a way forward. Analyzing the requirements that are approved for the project with the IT director focuses on past agreements and does not seek to uncover the root cause of the discontent and a resolution path. Discussing the IT director's concerns with the project team is a good step to take once the project manager has had a chance to collect forthright feedback from the IT director.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

Agile PM: Creative Innovative Products (No Date) Jim Highsmith/Cockburn/9/251 [Item]

| The Human Side of Agile: How to Help You (No Date) Gil Broza/3PVantage/3/12 [Item]

An organization just implemented agile and forms a development team where members are not co-located. The organization’s management style is known for setting clearly defined rules and objectives for team members.

What should the agile project manager do to align the team to the desired outcomes?

A.Arrange an in-person kick-off meeting to improve upon working relationships.
B.Discuss options with management that would align individual goals to project goals.
C.Schedule a speaker to inspire a collective vision across the team.
D.Foster commitment through team engagement and planning.
Solution: D. Foster commitment through team engagement and planning

The desired outcome can be achieved by fostering team commitment and engagement.

The other answer choices are incorrect. There is very little team involvement and input, and they suggest reliance on external factors. The project manager needs team buy-in to ensure alignment and engagement.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

Agile Coaching (No Date) Rachel Davies, Liz Sedley/The pragmatic programmers//158 [Item]

| Succeeding with Agile: Software Developm (No Date) Mike Cohn///363 [Item]

A new product is being constructed by an agile team, but the team has a limited amount of time to complete it. Due to these circumstances, it is important for the team to sustain collaboration for the duration of the project.

To build team solidarity, what should the project leader do?

A.Institute protocols for handling sprints in a team meeting.
B.Facilitate meetings with each member of the team to comprehend project goals.
C.Confer product progress with team members by utilizing a burndown chart.
D.Analyze the project map for release of product with team members.
Solution: B. Facilitate meetings with each member of the team to comprehend project goals

In the short time the team has, collaboration is important to achieve with communication and integration of team members. The project leader should facilitate meetings with each member of the team to comprehend project goals in order to build team solidarity.

The other answer choices are incorrect. They do not promote the necessary collaboration and integration needed for the project in a limited amount of time.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

Coaching Agile Teams (No Date) Lyssa Adkins//2/29-30 [Item]

| Collaboration Explained: Facilitation Skills for Software Project Leaders (2006) Jean Tabaka/ddison-Wesley/4/32-36 [Item]

A team is ready to start working on a project with a customer who was very difficult to work with in the past because the customer was unable to describe exactly what they wanted. What approach should the project manager take to remove this impediment?

A.Develop and monitor a plan with due dates to reduce the time of completing the product.
B.Work with the product owner to define the minimum viable product(s).
C.Follow a predictive approach in order to obtain formal acceptance of each deliverable.
D.Reinforce the negotiation and soft skills of the team through training.
Solution: B. Work with the product owner to define the minimum viable product(s)

Defining Minimum Viable Product is a way to rapidly test what customers want. Hence this option is correct.

Without the minimum viable product[MVP] in place, developing a plan with due dates nor obtaining formal acceptance is possible. Hence these two options are incorrect.

Again, without a minimum viable product[MVP] in place, soft skills training will not work in convincing the customer. Hence this option too is incorrect.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

Choose Your WoW! A Disciplined Agile Delivery Handbook for Opitimizing Your Way of Working (January 2019) Scott W Ambler and Mark Lines//6/91 [Item]

| O'Reilly Platform (No Date) //Agile Management - Chapter 12 - Do phase-experiment/ [Item]

| The Agile Practice Guide (No Date) PMI/PMI/3 Life-cycle selection/23 [Item 3.1.3]

A member of a project team at a standup proposes altering a feature due to its popularity in the market. A different team member counters and is concerned about quality user experience regarding the feature.

How can the project manager correct this issue?

A.Present the product owner the option to place the request in the product backlog by giving the product owner suggestions.
B.Utilize a voting system and allow the team to decide which of the features’ version to apply.
C.Place the issue in the backlog of the sprint and allow the project team to decide at the next meeting.
D.Arrange a meeting to make a definitive decision that includes all stakeholders and the project team.
Solution: A. Present the product owner the option to place the request in the product backlog by giving the product owner suggestions

The project manager can correct this issue by present the product owner the option to place the request in the product backlog and providing suggestions. It is up to the product owner to decide if the feature will add value.

The other answer choices are incorrect. These options are internal to the project team but the product owner is accountable for the product.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

Effective Project Management: Traditional, Agile, Extreme, Hybrid (No Date) Robert K. Wysocki//12. Comparing linear .... models/397 [Item]

| The Agile Practice Guide (No Date) PMI/PMI/4.3.2/41 [Item]

A project's deliverables due date is approaching, but one team member's performance is negatively impacting the schedule. What should the project manager do?

A.Acquire a more skilled resource.
B.Remove the team member from the project.
C.Mentor the team member.
D.Ask the team member's line manager to provide training.
Solution: C. Mentor the team member

Supporting a team member through coaching and mentoring is an effective way to develop a team member to contribute at higher levels within their organization.

Removing the team member or acquiring a different skilled resource would not necessarily bring relief to the project and doesn't address what might be the underlying issue.

Asking the team member's line manager to provide training may not bring the intended results. Although their manager may have the skills, he would have other responsibilities and may not be so familiar to provide the specific guidance to help move the project forward.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2018) PMI/PMI/9.4.2.6/ [Item Training]

| The Complete Project Management Office Handbook, Second Edition (2008) Gerard M. Hill/Auerbach Publications/13 - Mentoring/ [Item]

A product company is transforming the way it develops and releases products in the market. Executives believe that this is a high-risk initiative, and this initiative must be successful.

What should the project manager do in this scenario?

A.Develop a communications management plan to inform the employees about the new business model.
B.Develop a detailed sprint plan with clear deliverables.
C.Adopt an iterative rollout approach that delivers the highest business value earlier.
D.Develop a business case with assumptions for the new model.
Solution: C. Adopt an iterative rollout approach that delivers the highest business value earlier

Understanding iterative approach is critical in terms of realizing or achieving highest value. Hence this option is correct.

Developing a sprint plan with clear deliverables, can be done only after rollout approach has been developed. Hence this option is not the correct answer.

Similarly informing the employees about the new business model should be done only after rollout plan has been developed as the employees would be interested in knowing the rollout approach details. Hence this option is incorrect.

Business case is meant for providing justification for undertaking the project. Hence this option is incorrect.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

O'Reilly Platform (No Date) //Essential Scrum - chapter 3 - Agile principles/ [Item]

| O'Reilly Platform (No Date) //Succeeding with Agile - Chapter 17 - Scaling Scrum/ [Item]

During a new agile project, there have been hindrances related to budgeting and time management. The remote quality assurance team reported a lengthy defect list following completion of a couple sprints. The project manager concluded that the issues stem from language misinterpretation and not project quality.

What should the project manager do?

A.Prepare and execute sessions with the full project team to review the list of required tasks and descriptions.
B.Create a meeting with the quality assurance team and voice concerns regarding the feedback they provided.
C.Request a financial increase from the change control board (CCB) to employ a quality assurance team locally, as opposed to remote.
D.Combine the quality assurance team and the development team to complete testing at the conclusion of the project.
Solution: A. Prepare and execute sessions with the full project team to review the list of required tasks and descriptions

The project manager should prepare and execute sessions with the full project team to review the list of required tasks and descriptions. The project team needs to agree on what is important and required to resolve misunderstandings.

The other answer choices are incorrect. They are focused on project quality but the issue deals with defining requirements.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

Information Technology Project Management, 7th Ed. (2015) Kathy Schwalbe/Course Technology/2/68 [Item]

| O'Reilly Platform (No Date) //3/ [Item https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/managing-virtual-teams/9781631574061/Chapter_03.xhtml]

A project manager has been moved to a new division and is in charge of an existing project in an unfamiliar domain. When attempting to gain an understanding of the risks for this agile project, what is the primary tool the project manager should employ?

A.Interview with the project champion
B.Collaborative discussions
C.Probability assessments
D.Workshops for risk avoidance
Solution: B. Collaborative discussions

The correct answer is collaborative discussions.

This option is correct because it is the most important thing for a project manager to do in this situation. The project manager needs to have collaborative discussions in order to gain knowledge on the domain since it is unfamiliar. By fostering inclusive and collaborative environments, knowledge and expertise are more freely exchanged, which in turn enables better project outcomes.

Once the knowledge of the unfamiliar domain is gained, the remaining options like interviewing the project champion or performing probability assessments, or conducting workshops for risk avoidance will be helpful for the project manager and the team to understand the project and the risks better. Hence these are the secondary options that the project manager could employ.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

Choose Your WoW! A Disciplined Agile Delivery Handbook for Optimizing Your Way of Working (January 2019) Scott W Ambler and Mark Lines//25/357 [Item]

| O'Reilly Platform (No Date) //Chapter 10: Agile Risk Management/ [Item Agile for Project Managers]

Members from an agile team have been consistently tardy for stand-up meetings and are not meeting project target dates. The project leader assumes the issue may be difficulty with self-managing tasks within the team.

What action should the project leader take?

A.Aid the team to construct an agreement amongst them that details coveted behavioral norms.
B.Convene with the team to review the issues and detail actions to solve them.
C.Adopt a higher leadership role and set an example for the behavior needed.
D.Assemble agile and time management training for the team to complete.
Solution: A. Aid the team to construct an agreement amongst them that details coveted behavioral norms

The project leader should aid the team to construct an agreement amongst them that details coveted behavioral norms as it puts the onus on them to define the behavioral rules and hold themselves and their teammates accountable.

The other answer choices are incorrect. They are other ways to potentially resolve the issue involving the project leader, rather than the team themselves. Core agile principles promote self-directed and self-managed teams.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5/50 [Item]

| Succeeding with Agile: Software Developm (No Date) Mike Cohn/Addison-Wesley/18/364 [Item]

The product owner decides to launch a product after a couple of releases, knowing that the minimum viable product (MVP) lacks some features. One of the key stakeholders, the marketing vice president, is not happy with the results and questioned the release decision.

What should the project manager do?

A.Coach the team on the decision-making process, assuming a risk-averse strategy towards product releasing.
B.Support the product owner's decision and seek better alignment with this stakeholder in order to avoid this type of issue in the future.
C.Assume the responsibility for product releases, making the final call on when something is ready for customer launch.
D.Escalate the issue to the sponsor, questioning the authority of the key stakeholder regarding the product launch decision.
Solution: B. Support the product owner's decision and seek better alignment with this stakeholder in order to avoid this type of issue in the future

The agile team owns complete responsibility of the launch of the product and the Product owner being a part of the agile team, understands the product and the releases and is in a better position to decide when to launch the product . However, it also the duty of the Product Owner and the agile team to start involving all stakeholders early in the project, ensure inclusions in Priority decisions and solicit feedback during reviews that will eliminate stakeholder dissatisfaction. Hence this option is the correct answer.

Agile projects are less prone to risks as there are built in quality measures and their quick response to changes. Hence risk averse strategy may not be applicable. Hence this option is incorrect.

Project Manager in agile projects do not take responsibility for product releases nor can the project manager question the authority of the key stakeholders. Hence these options are incorrect.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

O'Reilly Platform (No Date) //4.1 How Do You Stimulate an Agile Culture?/ [Item Agile Leadership Toolkit: Learning to Thrive with Self-Managing Teams]

| O'Reilly Platform (No Date) //4/ [Item Agile Project Management: Creating Innovative Products, Second Edition

The capability of self-organizing teams lies in collaboration—the interaction and cooperation of two or more people to jointly produce a result. When two engineers scratch out a design on a whiteboard, they are collaborating. When team members meet to brainstorm a design, they are collaborating. When team leaders meet to decide whether a product is ready to ship, they are collaborating. The result of any collaboration can be categorized as a tangible deliverable, a decision, or shared knowledge.]

A product owner presented the backlog to the team, and the team raised concerns over implementing some of the features due to various impediments. What should the project manager suggest that the product owner do next?

A.Estimate the financial impact of the impediments and request additional funding.
B.Capture the impediments and inform management that their assistance is needed in resolving the impediments.
C.Ensure that the impediments are captured and prioritized based upon the highest valued features.
D.Begin to remove the impediments, starting with the easiest ones first, to foster team accomplishment.
Solution: C. Ensure that the impediments are captured and prioritized based upon the highest valued features

By capturing the impediments in the backlog and linking them to the items' priority, we ensure that the impediments will be removed before the work on the respective item starts.

Estimating the financial impact should be done only for those impediments that cannot be resolved and have highest priority number. Hence this option is incorrect.

Seeking assistance from the management should be done only for those impediments that cannot be resolved by the Project Manager and the team. Hence this option is incorrect.

Impediments should be always be sorted by priority and not based on any other criteria . Hence this option of removing impediments starting with the easiest is incorrect.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

Coaching Agile Teams (00/00/0000) Lyssa Adkins//5/101 [Item]

| O'Reilly Platform (No Date) //Agile Management - Chapter 11 - The think phase create a flexible plan/ [Item]

A project manager is managing a project where requirements are not fully known and a high level of uncertainty exists. Which methodology should be used for this project?

A.Agile
B.Hybrid
C.Predictive
D.Waterfall
Solution: A. Agile

Project life cycles can range along a continuum from predictive approaches at one end to adaptive or agile approaches at the other. In a predictive life cycle, the project deliverables are defined at the beginning of the project and any changes to the scope are progressively managed. In an adaptive or agile life cycle, the deliverables are developed over multiple iterations where a detailed scope is defined and approved for each iteration when it begins

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) /PMI// [Item]

| PMI.org Article (November 2017) /PMI/PMI (2017). Deliver Projects Better with any Approach.// [Item https://www.pmi.org/learning/thought-leadership/series/achieving-greater-agility/deliver-projects-better-with-any-approach]