A project manager has just started building the team for a huge and complex project. The project manager is highly interested in having effective communication with their large team.

What should the manager do to achieve this? 

A.Organize team activities to help team members express their interests.
B.Establish a process of sharing information with all team members.
C.Use timely and clear assessment of the situation with team members.
D.Allow free exchange of ideas and opinions between team members.
Solution: B. Establish a process of sharing information with all team members.

Building relationships with your stakeholders also helps to build trust between you, them, and your project team – and trust around the project. Trust is a key component of effective communication with others. Stakeholders who feel they can trust you are more apt to share information with you and be engaged in the project.

The other options are incorrect. Organizing team activities to help team members express their interests, might help to build morale and teamwork, but it would not necessarily improve communication. Using timely and clear assessment of the situation with team members is important, but it is not enough on its own. The project manager also needs to have a process for sharing information with team members. Allowing free exchange of ideas and opinions between team members is important, but it is not enough on its own. The project manager also needs to have a process for ensuring that all team members are aware of the project's progress and that they have a way to communicate their ideas and concerns.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

https://www.pmi.org/learning/library/managing-communications-effectively-efficiently-5916 [Item Arredondo, 2000). ]

An organization is undergoing a transformation from predictive to agile development. The organization plans to adopt an agile development process incrementally. A project manager is hired to lead the organizational transformation and product development.

What should the project manager do? (Choose 3)

A.Understand the current state of the organization and pilot agile practices.
B.Build a work authorization and work breakdown structure (WBS).
C.Develop a transformation roadmap and educate stakeholders and teams.
D.Propose that the organization maintain a predictive development approach.
E.Implement iterative planning cycles to regularly review progress.
Solution: A, C, and E

A. Understand the current state of the organization and pilot agile practices.

C. Develop a transformation roadmap and educate stakeholders and teams

E. Implement iterative planning cycles to regularly review progress.

Assessing and understanding the current state of the organization's processes, culture, and readiness for change is vital. This involves understanding existing workflows, identifying key stakeholders, and recognizing potential resistance to change.

Developing a transformation roadmap should include specific goals, timelines, and milestones for adopting agile practices incrementally.Providing training and resources to educate stakeholders and teams about agile principles, practices, and roles is crucial when an organization goes through a transformation from one approach to another.

Implementing iterative planning cycles to regularly review progress, gather feedback, and adjust plans as needed will help the project manager enact change comfortably and confidently. This helps align the project with business objectives and ensures the team is responsive to changes.

The other options are incorrect.

Work authorization and work breakdown structures are tools commonly used in predictive or waterfall approaches, and are not typically emphasized in agile transformations.

Proposing that the organization not adopt an agile approach and instead maintain predictive methods is counter to the organization's needs and wants. The organization has already decided to switch to agile practices, so it would be counterproductive to suggest that they maintain predictive development approaches.

An organization is under a business transformation. The project manager has been assigned to a project related to one of the new business lines.

What should the project manager and team do before defining the scope of the project?

A.Lead a procurement meeting.
B.Create a work breakdown structure (WBS).
C.Adapt and tailor existing assets.
D.Sign off on the business case.
Solution: C. Adapt and tailor existing assets.

The project team will need to tailor existing assets to meet the project’s needs. The team should take advantage of the organization’s existing assets, when appropriate, rather than procuring new ones. The most effective strategy, in general, is to use existing assets that are already in use within the organization. Procuring new assets isn't the best strategy, and building a WBS and signing off come after. 

After completing the stakeholder analysis, the project manager is in the action planning phase. What should the project manager do with the stakeholders that have no interest or influence in the project?

A.Closely monitor these stakeholders
B.Highly encourage these stakeholders
C.Attentively focus on these stakeholders
D.Visibly harness these stakeholders
Solution: A. Closely monitor these stakeholders

Stakeholders who have no interest or influence in the project may not be actively involved in the project, but they may still be affected by the project's outcome. It is important to keep these stakeholders informed of the project's progress and address any concerns. By closely monitoring these stakeholders, the project manager can ensure that they are not negatively impacted by the project and that they are aware of the project's progress.

The other answer choices are incorrect. Highly encouraging these stakeholders is not necessary because they are not interested in the project, so they are unlikely to be persuaded to become more involved. Attentively focusing on these stakeholders is not necessary because they are not influential, so they do not need to be given a lot of attention. Visibly harnessing these stakeholders is not necessary. These stakeholders are not interested in the project, so they are unlikely to be willing to help the project succeed.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

https://www.pmi.org/learning/library/engaging-stakeholders-project-success-11199

A customer requested a change to a functionality that is being delivered in the next iteration. The specialist responsible for this functionality was recently assigned to another project.

What should the project manager do first?

A.Request a new resource from HR.
B.Request a new resource from the project sponsor.
C.Negotiate for the resource's availability.
D.Tell the customer that the new change is not possible.
Solution: C. Negotiate for the resource's availability

The project manager should negotiate for the resource's availability first. The project manager should explain to the project sponsor the impact of the customer's request on the project and the need to have the specialist available to make the change. The project sponsor may be able to negotiate with the other project manager to have the specialist temporarily assigned to the current project.

The other answers are incorrect. If the project sponsor is unable to get the specialist's availability, then the project manager can request a new resource from HR. The project manager should not tell the customer that the new change is not possible without first trying to negotiate for the resource's availability or requesting a new resource from HR.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:
https://standardsplus.pmi.org/posts/res_id17_org_article_fix1/3210b0c2-3297-4312-9729-
56382e737be3 [Item]
| PMI.org (2006) //https://www.pmi.org/learning/library/matrix-evolves-internal-conflicts4043// [Item]

A project manager is developing a project management plan to submit to the project sponsor in two weeks. The project sponsor, however, wants to review the early resource estimates before the deadline.

What should the project manager do?

A.Ask the sponsor to wait until the Work breakdown structure (WBS) is done.
B.Share a draft copy of the Budget Estimate Sheet (BES) with the sponsor.
C.Re-share the Statement of Work (SOW) with the sponsor.
D.Share a draft copy of the Resource Breakdown Structure (RBS) with the sponsor.
Solution: D. Share a draft copy of the Resource Breakdown Structure (RBS) with the sponsor.

The RBS is a document that outlines the project's resources, including the types of resources, the quantities of resources, and the costs of resources. The RBS visualizes how resources are allocated across employees and teams at every stage of the project. This information would be more relevant to the sponsor's request than the BES, WBS, and WBS dictionary for reviewing the early resource estimates.

The other answer choices are incorrect. WBS Dictionary is a document that provides detailed deliverable, activity, and scheduling information about each component in the work breakdown structure. Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) is a hierarchical decomposition of the total scope of work to be carried out by the project team to accomplish the project objectives and create the required deliverables. Statement of work (SOW) is the all-encompassing scope to be carried out by the project team to accomplish the project objectives.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

https://standardsplus.pmi.org/posts/Res_14/83b71ea9-307a-4362-9704-19e840cd65f1 [Item]

| Project Management Body of Knowledge (11/02/16) Project Management Institute//9.2.3.3/ [Item The resource breakdown structure is a representation of resources by category and type. Examples of resource categories include but are not limited to labor, material, equipment, and supplies. Resource types may include the skill level, grade level, required certifications, or other information as appropriate to the project.]

What can a project manager do to communicate the formal project announcement and relevant information to stakeholders, and then gain their commitment?

A.Create the project charter.
B.Conduct a kick-off meeting.
C.Develop the communications management plan.
D.Prepare and distribute the responsible, accountable, consult, and inform (RACI) matrix.
Solution: C. Developed communications plan.

By developing a communications plan, the project manager can ensure that the stakeholders are kept informed of the project's progress and that they have a way to communicate their concerns. This can help to avoid the situation where stakeholders are complaining and declining meetings.

The other options are incorrect. Creating the project charter is a good idea, but it is not the most important thing to do in this situation. The project manager needs to address the issue of stakeholder communication first. Conducting a kick-off meeting is a good way to communicate with stakeholders, but it is not enough on its own. The project manager needs to have a plan for ongoing communication with stakeholders. Distributing a RACI matrix is a tool that can be used to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the stakeholders. However, it is not a substitute for a comprehensive communications plan.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

e-Reads (No Date) //Effective Project Management: Traditional, Agile, Extreme, Fifth Edition./Chapter 5 - Conducting the Project Kick‐Off Meeting [Item]

| Fundamentals of Technology PM, 2nd Ed (2nd) Colleen Garton, Erika McCulloch/Mc Press/6/195 [Item]

| PMBoK, Sixth edition (2021) PMI/PMI/3/ [Item Project Initiation and Project Communications Management]

Since the beginning of a project, the product owner keeps asking during ceremonies about the budget spent for each product iteration. The product owner seems much more interested in the cost rather than the product itself.

What should the project manager have done earlier to change the product owner's behavior?

A.Worked on different approaches of estimating to give confidence of the cost spent in each product increment
B.Worked on a communications management plan with reports of budget spent in each iteration versus planned to avoid these discussions during ceremonies
C.Worked with the product owner to clarify their role in an agile project and the scope of the agile ceremonies
D.Worked on a fixed-price contract to switch the product owner's attention to value instead of money
Solution: C. Worked with the product owner to clarify their role in an agile project and the scope of the agile ceremonies

The Project Manager should take this opportunity to mentor the Product owner on the role of the team[Product Owner being a part of the team] in Agile projects, which appears to have been missed earlier. Hence this is the correct answer.

The team is not concerned with the budgetary aspects in Agile projects. Hence the remaining options are incorrect.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

O'Reilly Platform (No Date) //Essential Scrum - chapter 20 - Sprint execution/ [Item]

| The Agile Practice Guide (No Date) PMI/PMI/4/37 [Item Educate stakeholders around why and how to be agile. Explain the benefits of business value based on prioritization, greater accountability and productivity of empowered teams, and improved quality from more frequent reviews, etc.]

A project manager sends out requests for regular status meetings and daily standup meetings during the project setup phase. However, business stakeholders are declining the meetings.

What should the project manager do?

A.Check why meetings are declined
B.Re-share communications plan
C.Set up a project team ground rules
D.Hold a project kick-off meeting
Solution: A. Check why meetings are declined

The project manager should first check why the business stakeholders are declining the meetings. There could be a number of reasons, such as they are not aware of the importance of the meetings; they are too busy with other work; or they do not see the value in the meetings. Once the project manager understands the reasons why the meetings are being declined, they can take steps to address the concerns and ensure that the stakeholders are engaged and that the meetings are productive.

The other options are incorrect. Re-sharing the communications plan, is not necessary if the stakeholders have already received the plan.; setting up project team ground rules, is not relevant to the situation as the stakeholders,not team members, are declining meetings; and holding a project kick-off meeting, is too early in the project as the project setup phase has not yet been completed.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

Agile Approaches on Large Projects in Large Organizations (No Date) Brian Hobbs and Yvan Petit//2/2.7.4 [Item]

PMBOK Guide Seventh Edition (2022) ///[4.6.3 PLANS]
[2.4.4 COMMUNICATION]

While preparing a project's third progress report, the project manager identifies that the project will experience delays due to late material deliveries. The two previous project reports indicated that the project was on track.

What should the project manager do next?

A.Discuss it with the project team to determine the most appropriate way to respond.
B.Add it to the issue log and include it in the project report.
C.Contact the procurement manager to expedite delivery of the material.
D.Escalate the issue to the project owner and request a schedule change.
Solution: B. Add it to the issue log and include it in the project report

PMBoK Sixth Edition in chapter 4 states,: "4.3.3.3 ISSUE LOG

Throughout the life cycle of a project, the project manager will normally face problems, gaps, inconsistencies, or conflicts that occur unexpectedly and that require some action so they do not impact the project performance. The issue log is a project document where all the issues are recorded and tracked. Data on issues may include:

Issue type,

Who raised the issue and when,

Description,

Priority,

Who is assigned to the issue,

Target resolution date,

Status, and

Final solution.

The issue log will help the project manager effectively track and manage issues, ensuring that they are investigated and resolved. The issue log is created for the first time as an output of this process, although issues may happen at any time during the project. The issue log is updated as a result of the monitoring and control activities throughout the project's life cycle"

The question identifies that there can be delays in the project schedule as planned due to delivery issues. Therefore, the correct procedure for the project manager is to record the issue in the Issue Log.

The Distractors are correctly written and are valid distractions

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

Fundamentals of Technology PM, 2nd Ed (2nd) Colleen Garton, Erika McCulloch/Mc Press/9 - Project Development/331 [Item]

| PMBoK, Sixth edition (2021) PMI/PMI/4/ [Item Issue Log]

| PMBOK® Guide--Fifth Edition (5th) PMI/PMI/10 - Project Communications Management/301 [Item]

A research and development department is planning to develop a product that will introduce a new line of business for the organization. What should the project manager do to increase the project's chances of success?

A.Start developing the project management plan based on a previous project template from the project management office (PMO).
B.Conduct an impact analysis of the new initiative to determine how the project should be rolled out.
C.Plan a working session focusing on the scope, vision, and mission of the initiative.
D.Conduct benchmarking to determine the business viability of the initiative.
Solution: C. Plan a working session focusing on the scope, vision, and mission of the initiative

For any project success its critical to initially define vision and mission of the overall initiative even before focusing on detailed planning.

Project management plan, determining business viability or impact analysis should be carried out once the initiative is defined properly

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

O'Reilly Platform (No Date) //Agile for Project Managers, Chapter 2 - Agile concepts/ [Item]

| PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2018) PMI/PMI/Project Resource Management/350 [Item]

A project manager is leading a project with seven key stakeholders. What should the project manager consider as the most important part of stakeholder management?

A.Avoid challenging stakeholders. 
B.Make changes to the project schedule in real-time.
C.Ensure all stakeholders receive the same information.
D.Establish good working relationships with all stakeholders.
Solution: D. Establish good working relationships with all stakeholders.

Relationships between the project manager, the project’s stakeholders, and the project team are very important. The most critical part of stakeholder management is relationships.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

https://www.pmi.org/learning/library/project-relationships-stakeholder-circle-8092 [Item Project relationships are those relationships that occur between the project manager and the project’s stakeholders as well as those that occur among the project stakeholders themselves. This network, comprising all the relationships both within and around the project ( Bourne & Walker, 2003; Briner, Hastings & Geddes, 1996; Frooman, 1999), forms the project environment, or sphere of influence and support, on which a project depends for its very existence and has to be managed.]

A company outsources the execution of a project with a fixed-price contract to a supplier. During execution, the supplier agrees to deliver additional customer requirements that were not included in the contract. To fulfill the expanded scope, both parties add more resources to keep the project on the planned schedule.

Which technique is being applied in this project?

A.Fast tracking
B.Crashing
C.Resource leveling
D.Lead and lag
Solution: B. Crashing

If the scope increases without increasing the schedule, the crashing technique achieves compression by adding more resources.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

PMP: Project Management Professional Study Guide, Nineth Edition, 9th edition (2018) Kim Heldman/Sybex/4/215 [Item]

| Project Management Body of Knowledge (11/02/16) Project Management Institute//6.5.2.6/ [Item Crashing: a technique used to shorten the schedule duration for the least incremental cost by adding resources. Examples of crashing include approving overtime, bringing in additional resources or paying to expedite delivery to activities on the critical path.]

A project team is arranging user testing to be completed for a project but does not have a strong enough server to do so. The team orders a new server and postpones user testing.

What should the project manager do moving forward?

A.Eliminate the user testing from the project plan.
B.Utilize the current server to complete user testing.
C.Request to expedite the new server from the supplier.
D.Await the arrival of the new server and reevaluate timelines for user testing.
Solution: D. Await the arrival of the new server and reevaluate timelines for user testing.

The current server does not meet performance requirements for user acceptance testing. The project team has no choice but to wait for the new server capable of supporting the testing and then reevaluate timelines for user testing.

The other answer choices are incorrect. User testing is essential and cannot be eliminated; using the improper infrastructure for testing can lead to invalid test results; and the project manager may request the server be expedited, but that is not controllable and usually not feasible due to logistics arrangement.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

Effective Project Management: Traditional, Agile, Extreme, Hybrid (No Date) Robert K. Wysocki//6/ [Item]

| PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2018) PMI/PMI/9.3.1/330 [Item]

The team and product owner are reviewing user stories in the iteration planning meeting. While reviewing stories, it is identified that some of the high-value stories have more associated risks.

What should the agile project manager do?

A.Recommend that the team include risky stories in early iterations rather than later ones.
B.Recommend that the team choose stories with low risk for easy completion to keep team motivation high.
C.Work with the product owner to decide on the stories that should go during the iteration.
D.Use the Pareto analysis to decide which stories can be completed the fastest.
Solution: A. Recommend that the team include risky stories in early iterations rather than later ones

Risk management should be iterative in agile projects. Any risk items or stories that are identified as higher risks should be addressed earlier by adding them in appropriate sprints rather than to wait for the risks to hit the project.

The other answer choices are incorrect. Focusing on low risk stories will leave out the high risk stories that should be prioritized; the team, not the product owner, should determine the stories; Pareto analysis is not the right tool to use.

This question and rationale were developed in reference to:

O'Reilly Platform (No Date) //10 Agile Risk Management/ [Item Agile for Project Managers : ]

| O'Reilly Platform (No Date) //7/ [Item Lean-Agile Software Development, Guy Beaver]