In this video, I have compiled 180 PMP questions that are the closest to the real exam. These questions are situational and they cover all the exam domains. If you are looking for realistic questions, don't look further. You are in the right place. Let's get started. Now, let's review more PMP questions in order to improve your readiness for the final exam. Let's get started. The first question says, "The project manager is facing some struggles after joining a new company. Her superiors noted that during a kickoff meeting, she had difficulty answering questions about how the project fits in with the organization's objectives. What critical skill is the project manager lacking? business acquir ways of working, communication skills or power skills. Okay. So if we are going to refer back to the triangle of talent according to the PMI, we have three skills. The first skill is way of working. The second is power skills and the third is business acquam. All right. So here we have the communication skills is part of the power skills. So if we are going to choose we are going to choose among these three options. So C here is not the right answer and since the project manager is having difficulty to understand the organization objectives is most probably related to the business aquamium skills. So the project manager should focus on this skill set. Let's check the right answer. Yes, the right answer is A. And the project manager possessing the business accommodian skills should be able to explain the business value of her project and how it aligns with the organization's goals. All right, let's move to the next question. A project manager is assigned to an eco-friendly packaging project. In order to manage involved stakeholders, the project manager starts by analyzing their power, urgency, and legitimacy. Which analysis method is the project manager applying? Stakeholder cube, salience model, power interest grid or power influence grid. Let's have an idea first about stakeholder cube. Actually this is how stakeholder cube looks like and it takes into consideration three parameters. The interest, the power and the attitude. As we can see here, the power interest grid takes into consideration only two parameters and classifies stakeholders according to power or interest. Power influence on the other hand classifies stakeholders based on power and influence and stakeholder Q classifies stakeholders as per their attitude, power and interest. You can see here the different classification of the stakeholders based on this method. And since here the project manager is using power urgency and legitimacy by elimination stakeholder cube power grid and power influence grid are all wrong options and the right option should be be here the salience model. If we get a deeper look into the salience model, it looks like that we have the power, the urgency and legitimacy. And based on these three parameters, we are going to map stakeholders. So here the first category is considered as dormant stakeholders like we see here. The second category here is discretionary stakeholders. Three here demanding stakeholders, four dormant stakeholders and so on. So in your PMP exam, you don't need to keep by all these categories. You should only learn that the salience model entails of classifying stakeholders based on their power, their legitimacy and their urgency. That's it. So let's verify the right answer. Yes, the correct answer is B. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager notices that his colleague, who is a fellow project manager, shows up at the office with new high-tech gadgets every day. This raises his suspicious that his colleague might be accepting gifts from hardware vendors who will be bidding on the on one of their company's upcoming multi-million dollar contracts. What should the project manager do next? Let's see the different options. warn the concerned colleague that such gifts aren't appropriate and leave it at that. Okay, here let's go back to the scenario and check out the key words. This raises his suspicions which means that there is no facts yet about the situation. So here warning the colleague is not appropriate because the project manager is not sure yet that these are gifts or not. Okay, let's check B. Convince his colleague to return the items and stop accepting any gifts from vendors. Here also the option entails that the colleague already took these gadgets as gifts which he's not approved yet. So I'm going to eliminate A and B. C. Verify whether these items were gifts from vendors or he purchased them himself. So verification is a good next step in this scenario. So I'm considering this as a good option but let's confirm with the last option report his colleague to the organization so that a conflict of interest investigation can take place. All right. So here reporting is not also very good option in such case because you're still like suspicious about the situation and maybe you need to verify first whether these items were gifts from the vendors or he purchased them himself and once you confirm that these are gifts you can report the colleague to the organization. Here you might be asking what you should do to verify. You can simply ask the person these are your belongings or is it something that you have received from the vendor and the person could reply to you and based on their reply you can take the appropriate steps. Let's confirm the right option. Yes, the right option is C. And the best way to act in this situation is to verify facts before taking any action. All right, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is working on a contract. Know that she completed the contract and closed the project. The project manager is out of work. Okay. So means that the project manager is no longer working on the project and no longer working on the organization as well. What type of organizational structure does the project manager work in? Strong metrics, projectized, functional or weak metrics. Let's have a quick look about the different organizations first in order to decide which organization structure does this project manager works for. Okay, the first type is functional here and for the functional organizations the project manager's authority is little to none. Resource availability little to none. Who manages the project budget? is the functional manager and the project manager is usually working part-time and the project management administrative staff is also part-time. On the other side of the spectrum, we find the projectized organization where the project manager authority is high to almost total. Resource availability is also high to almost total. The project manager is the one who manages the budget. that the project manager is working full-time and the project management administrative staff is also full-time. So here we find in between the matrix organizations we have three types the weak, the balanced and the strong. In our case we have here the weak matrix in our example and we have the functional we have the strong matrix and we have the projectized organization. In such a case we can see that in this project the project ends and the project manager is out of work which means that most probably the organization is a projectized organization. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, a projectoriented organization or a projectized organization is one in which a considerable part of its processes and activities take place in the form of projects. There is no defined hierarchy. Resources are brought together specifically for the purpose of a project. When a project is complete, they either get transitioned to another project or release it. And that's the characteristics of a projectized organization. Let's move on to the next question. After deciding to invest more in the project management capabilities of the organization, a PMO is established to ensure compliance with a set of project management standards. What type of PMO is the organization implementing? Supportive, controlling, directive or agile. Actually, we have three types of PMOs. We have the supportive or consultative, controlling or directive. Agile is project management approach. In agile organizations, we could have PMOs as well and usually these PMOs are called value delivery office and they are usually supportive or consultative PMOs when it comes to agile. In traditional project management, we could have these different levels of PMO involvement and in such case we have a PMO that ensure compliance which means that they are not supportive. They are not just providing the support but also require that the project manager comply to these processes or these documents or whatever guidance they provide and that makes the correct option is B controlling directive is not correct because with the directive style of PMO they take over the projects they don't just give support or they require compliance they step in and take control of the project and that's not the case here. And let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is B. Controlling PMO focuses on two key areas. Supporting the organization in applying project management practices and requiring compliance with these practices. All right, let's move on to the next question. In an interior design project for a library, the client asks the project team to increase the number of bookshelves beyond what was agreed on. Since the project is unscheduled, and adding additional shelves will not cause any delay, the project manager consents to the client's request. This is an example of either gold plating, customer obsession, scope creep, or successful project. All right, we have here request from the customer to the project team and the project manager accepted the request since it doesn't cause any delay. Okay, here we can notice that the project manager took only the delay as a criteria for accepting the process. Okay. And that's a problem actually because this considered as a change request and once there is a change request the integrated change control process should be followed and in this case we can notes that it is not followed appropriately and the project manager is not taking the change request to the control board and did not document the process appropriately. So we don't consider this as a successful project and we don't consider this as customer obsession. Why it is not considered as a customer obsession? Because usually with customer obsession we are trying to satisfy the client by giving them what they requested and respecting the project scope and providing the quality that is requested. Customer obsession should not be by extending the project scope without following the agreed open processes. Okay, we are left with two options gold plating and scope creep. Actually the difference is gold plating when the project team usually is doing something to please the customer. The customer didn't accept for the change but the project team themselves try to do some changes to please the customer. In our case, the client asks for the change request. So, it doesn't come from the project team. That's why it is not considered as gold plating. And the right answer should be scope grip. Let's confirm. Yes, the right answer is scope grip, which is also known as feature grip or requirement grip, which is the uncontrolled expansion of the project's scope. The project manager should assess the change requests from all perspectives not just delays and follow the change control process in order to implement the change. Okay, so let's move on to the next question. After a discussion with the development team, the scrum master decided to label backlog items as shortterm, midterm, and long-term. Soon after the scrum master got an email from the product owner asking them to remove those labels without giving any clear explanation. What should the scrum master do next? A ask for an explanation. Okay. So here in this situation we need to understand what are the roles of each the scrum master and the product owner. Here we see that the scrum master labeled the backlog items and we know that the product backlog is owned by the product owner. Okay. So here since the product owner asked the scrum master to remove the labels. So the product owner has the right to do this request. Okay. So a ask for an explanation. Okay. The scrum master can ask an explanation later on. But since the product owner owns the product backlog, maybe the scrum master should implement what the product owner asked for and later on maybe and formally request for an explanation. A is not maybe the best option. I would wait and check the other options and maybe if we don't find any better option, maybe ask for an explanation could be right. But let's check others. B. Call for a meeting to address this issue. Actually, we are not facing a real issue here. This scrum master did something that the product owner is not agreeing with. That doesn't really require a meeting, I think. So, here call for a meeting to address this issue is not appropriate. We have a conflict and we have the product. We are in a situation that the scrum master should simply apply what the product owner asks for. Let's check the other options and look if there is any better option than B and A. C. Wait until the next sprint planning meeting to update the labels as per the product owner's request. Actually, the product owner soon after requested by an email. The product owner could wait for a sprint planning for instance, but he did not do that. And since he didn't do that then we should not wait until the next sprint planning and the scrum master should act quickly and that makes C not correct option. D remove the labels. I think that's the next course of action the scrum master should do which is removing the label. Not waiting, not asking for explanations, not calling for meeting just remove the labels. Why is that? Because the product owner is the owner of the product backlog. The scrum master should not take the responsibility of the product owner unless the product owner requested from the scrum master to do that. Okay. So let's check the right answer. Yes, the product owner is responsible for the product backlog. Consequently, the scrum master should remove the labels as per the product owner's request even if they didn't get any clear explanation for this decision. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A risk manager is collaborating with the project manager to perform a risk analysis to determine the most likely project completion date based on known risks. They conduct a simulation using the tool to go through thousands of possible scenarios. And here since we have thousands of possible scenarios, you should immediately think about Monte Carlo analysis. Don't think twice because it's the only method that we use for thousands of possible scenario. It's also the only method we use to iterate these scenarios using advanced softwares and powerful machines. Okay. So let's confirm the right option. Yes, the right answer is A. As you can see here, we didn't go through the different options in your PMP exam. Once you are pretty much sure about the answer, take it and go to the next question. Don't waste your time. You have seen this advice before and now I would like to emphasize it more and more. Once you are sure about the option, select it and move forward. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project manager who follows the servant leadership style is onboarding a new team member who he believes can help fill skill level gaps in the current project team. The project manager provides the new team member with a copy of the project charter and commits to sending her copy of which addresses team values, ground rules and working agreements. What's this document that has this stuff? the employment contract. No, the contract usually doesn't have ground rules and team values. These documents are usually related to team. So, we don't find resource management plan or communication management plan either within this document. Actually, this document should be the team charter. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the team charter is document that is developed in a group setting to clarify team direction while also establishing boundaries. All right, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading project that has become so large, multiple teams, long duration and huge budget that the sponsor has been replaced by a steering committee. Okay, so before we have a sponsor, now we are having a steering committee. What should the project manager do to accommodate this new change? A acknowledge that the stakeholder structure has changed and tailor communication accordingly. Okay, here is good. I mean we can see that the project is acknowledging the change and tailoring the communication accordingly. That's good. Usually when you see the term tailor, that's an indication that the answer is right. But let's confirm whether this is the best option or not. B work according to the original plan. Okay. We usually when you read this I would advise you to not continue reading because maybe they will give you in the second part something to let you convince that this is the right option. But since we start like this work according to the original plan it is not a good start for right option here as if you are ignoring the change. So don't continue reading and skip to the other option. Okay, let's see the other option. Hold the meeting. This is good. Let's continue reading with the new steering committee and continue working on the project. Okay, the first part is good. But this part not that much because here as if you are not going to do any changes just holding a meeting without showing any willing to adjust your communication according to the new change. So, I'm not liking this second part. I would prefer option A over option C. Let's check D. Share an updated status report with the new steering committee. Does this accommodate this new change? No, it's not going to resolve the issue. It's not going to accommodate the change since sharing a status report is part of the communication strategy. And maybe the steering committee doesn't want just an updated states report. It would like to get more in-depth reports and have meetings as well and doing some investigation stuff like that. So maybe the is not sufficient. You need to tailor your communication. You need to have a meeting. You need to acknowledge this change and process accordingly. So I would opt for A. Let's check the right answer. Yes, A is the right answer. On large projects, one sponsor might not be enough. A steering committee is established when a large project involves multiple business units, organizations, or individuals who all have a substantial stake in the project success and outcomes. The project manager needs to be proactive and responds to this change. The initial communication plan for a single sponsor may not work for a steering committee. In order to ensure effective communication with the committee, the project manager must understand their communication requirements and preferences. Pre-manufacturing lines are producing 5 mm diameter cylindrical steel bars. In order to perform quality inspection, the project manager takes 10 random bars from each line. We have here the 10 bars until this one. The following are the inspection results in millimeter measurements. Which are these measurements? Okay. The results of line one can be described as accurate, precise, both accurate and precise or neither accurate or precise. So we can see here that the objective is to get 5 mm. And we can see here that for line one it's always around 445. sometimes less, sometimes more, which is not as expected because we are expecting to be around 5 mm. In line two, for instance, we have the average is five and as you can see, sometimes more, sometimes less. For line three, same the average is five and we have sometimes more and sometimes less. So in line one it's not accurate but it's precise because it's always around 445. So the right answer should be B here. Let's check the right answer. Yes, the results are precise because all measurements are close to 445. Precision entails delivering and products with similar dimensions which may or may not be close to the required dimensions. Okay. So, let's move on to the next question. A government contractor wants to keep the costs of building a public school under control while putting the risk on the vendor's side. So, here the government's contractor wants to put the risks on the vendor signs. This seems like a key word in this question. Moreover, the contractor wants to ensure that the seller is legally obliged to complete the contract. Otherwise, the seller may face financial liabilities. Which type of contract represents the least risk for the government contractor? Let's check the different options. We have fixed price, time and material cost plus incentive fee and cost reimburseable. So among these different options, we know that the least risk for vendors is the fixed price because in this contract we know already the price and the government contractor could also oblige the seller to complete the contract otherwise they may face financial liabilities. Let's confirm yes the right answer is fixed price contract. Let's move on to the next question. In an effort to increase agile knowledge, a project manager has been paired with other agile project managers to observe how they lead their teams. The project manager notices that many project decisions are the responsibility of the project team while project managers are more facilitative than authoritarian as they share a common vision and allow the team to focus on their work. So what leadership approach does this depict? A participative leadership or autocratic? It is not autocratic because here we said that they are more facilitative than authoritative which means that they are not autocratic. Transformational or servant leadership. Here we don't have enough information whether the leadership is transformational or participative here means democratic. But here I think the the situation describes more a servant leadership because here sharing common vision and facilate works and let them focus on their work etc. So these are threats of servant leadership rather than participative or transformational. So let's confirm the right answer. Yes, agile project managers generally follow the servant leadership style which consists in leading through serving the team. Servant leadership focuses on capturing and addressing the needs of team members in order to achieve good team performance. Participative leadership which means also democratic involves soliciting team members input while decision making rests on the participative leader. Autocratic leadership is when the leader makes all decisions and transformational leadership is when the leader motivates his team and enhances their productivity through high visibility and communication. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project manager closed the first phase of the project and launched the second phase. Therefore, the project manager meets with the sponsor to check if any potential players were left out in the first phase and to discuss these new stakeholders influence. The activity that the project manager is carrying out with the sponsor can be identified as planning stakeholder engagement or identifying stakeholders or planning resource management or identifying risks. As you can see here, we are not talking about risks. We are talking about stakeholders and the project manager checking whether there are stakeholders left out. So we are not talking about risks also we are trying to list the stakeholders. So we are not trying to plan their engagement or to plan the resource for the project. So the right answer here should be identifying stakeholders. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, B is the right answer. Let's move to the next question. A project manager is assigned to lead an industrial project. In the second phase of the project, the project manager will need to hire dozens of remote workers. What is the best way for the project manager to quickly collect data from candidates? Video recordings, workshops, questionnaires, and surveys or live interviews. We can eliminate two right away. Workshops require a lot of time and live interviews also require a lot of time because you have here dozens of remote workers and live interviews. Each interview should dure between 30 to 30 minutes to 1 hour. So you will spend a lot of time for interviews also for workshops. We are left to with two options questionnaires and surveys or video recordings. Actually, video recordings will be more effective than live interviews because usually video recordings will require couple of minutes for each candidate, maybe 5 minutes or 10 minutes maximum. In some cases, it could be even 30 minutes, but usually it's short. Questionaireers and surveys are more effective if we would like to collect quickly data because with questionaireers and surveys we can apply filters and do some statistics and it's very effective for such cases. I would say C is the right answer but here I'd like to give you an advice as a recruiter. Combining C with A in some cases is very efficient. I have tried this myself. I use questionnaires and at the end of the questionnaires I ask candidates to record a short video about themselves and in that video they should respond to one question or two questions. That's it. It should not be long. The key here is that you are going to see the person talking and you will get an idea about this person before meeting them in live interviews. So this will be very effective believe me. But here if we stick to the situation and if we would like to choose the method that permits you to collect data quickly, C is the right answer. Let's confirm. Yes, surveys and questionnaires are written sets of questions designed to quickly gather data from a large number of respondents who are usually geographically dispersed. All right, let's move on to the next question. The project manager who works at a web agency suggests creating a dropshipping e-commerce project since it's profitable. Her manager on the other hand doesn't fully agree. What should the project manager do to persuade her manager? A calculate the project's cost performance index. The project cost performance index known as CPI is used in predictive projects to understand how the project is performing. So it's not an indicator that the project is profitable or not. Here that's the essence of the discussion between the project manager and the manager is whether this project is profitable or not. CPI doesn't give you this information. As what analysis this is used for assessing the project from a qualitative perspective and it doesn't assess the project quantitatively. So it's not applicable in this case as well. You cannot persuade your managing using the SW what analysis because it will not give you an indication whether this project is profitable or not. Calculate the project's budget at completion. Budget at completion is also used in predictive projects in which we are predicting to complete the project at that budget. So it's not a metric for defining whether the project is profitable or not. It's just how much we are going to spend in this project. G calculate the project cost benefit ratio. This is what we are looking for actually. Cost benefit ratio is an indication for how the project will perform financially and this is what the project manager should calculate and this is what the project manager should show for the manager in order to convince them that the project is profitable. Let's confirm yes the right answer is D. to persuade her manager to select the project. The project manager should use the cost benefit ratio to demonstrate the project's profitability. All right, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is running a project with remote and local resources. The remote team complains that they are not getting enough information about what's going on with the project which has caused them to do some rework. So rework here means that the work is done not according to the planning and the team needs to do the work again because of some misunderstanding or quality issues or any other cause. The project manager facilitates a conference call with the two teams in which they decide to switch to a sophisticated enterprise chat platform to optimize communications. Here the two teams agreed about adopting this enterprise chat platforms. So to make this easier for your understanding, enterprise chat platforms could be Microsoft Teams, could be Slack. Let's uh check the question. Which conflict resolution technique did the project manager use? Collaborate. Yes, we can see that the project manager brings the two team and facilitates a meeting and the project manager reached to a solution. So, we can consider this as a collaborate compromise. No, because each of the two teams doesn't sacrifice or give any concessions. Therefore, compromise is not the right option. Force also is not the right option because the project manager did not force the use of any of the solutions for both teams. That's why force is not accurate. Smooth is also not accurate because the project manager doesn't lower the impact of the conflict. Instead, the project manager brings the two teams together and try to find a solution. And here collaborate is the best term that describes this situation. Let's confirm. Yes, A is the correct answer. Collaboration or problem solving conflict resolution technique is based on incorporating multiple viewpoints and insights from different perspectives. It necessitates a collaborative mindset and open communication to achieve consensus and commitment to an agreement. This approach aims to reach a win-win situation for all involved parties. Okay, let's move on to the next question. To better understand how the project system flows, depicting the scope in abstraction and enabling stakeholders to communicate about it and what lies beyond its boundaries. A project manager uses a visual representation of how people and other systems interact with the new system. Which of the following tools does the project manager use? Affinity diagram, flowchart, context diagram or influence diagram. Okay, I will show you here when I was working in the IT industry a diagram that I used to describe a platform and how the different users we have here the end user the developer how they are interacting with the system and what are the different parts of the system and how they are interacting together and this is known as a context diagram. So this is the kind of diagram that I described at that time to let everyone in the team understand what party of the system and how they are interacting together and this is the end user, this is the developer etc. So this is what it describes here in this situation as well because here we have a visual representation of how people and other systems interact with a new system. This is an example and for our situation it depicts the context diagram. Let's confirm yes the correct answer is C. Context diagrams are visual depictions of the product scope displaying the business system and how it connects and interacts with other systems. Let's move on to the next question. Realizing that her project is not going according to estimations, a project manager suspects that it might be due to student syndrome. What does this syndrome imply? Let's check the different options about student syndromes. People who proceed with their studies during their professional careers, this is not correct right away. That does not imply student syndrome. Even it's related to students before but the concept is projected to project management. Let's check B. People who begin to apply themselves only at the last possible moment before the deadline. So this seems like the right answer since we find the right answer for the student syndrome. I think it's waste of time to continue reading CN D. We have seen this technique before. Once you find out the right answer and you are 100% sure about it, click it and move forward. Let's use this technique and check the right option. Yes, the right option is B. Student syndrome is a term used in project management to highlight the everinccreasing habit of putting off work till the last minute while initially working at a very relaxed pace. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is managing a project using the scrum framework. The project manager receives a call from the product owner asking for a meeting with the team to discuss the possible approaches to implement user stories and make some initial size estimations. So here the product owner wants to discuss with the team about the user stories and affect some initial estimations. So the product owner could understand how big is the product backlog, how he can estimate the next releases or define the road map etc. So let's see the question. What type of meeting is the product owner referring to? Is it sprint planning or story mapping or backlog refinement or brainstorming? Okay, so sprint planning is done at the beginning of each sprint. Imagine that we have a sprint here and we have a second sprint, we have a third sprint. At the beginning of each sprint, we have a sprint planning and sprint planning time is fixed. I mean usually we know in advance when the sprint planning will take place but for backlog refinement we don't know exactly when it happens. Usually it's random throughout the sprints. So for this reason sprint planning is not the right option because here the product owner asked for a meeting during the sprint and also there is initial size estimations. So usually during the sprint planning we refine estimations and we give final estimations for the user stories before starting working on the user stories. So that's why A is not the right option. B story mapping. Story mapping is when we try to decompose user stories and decompose epics and that's the word mapping comes from. It comes from decomposing. So we know each task it belongs to each user story and each user story belongs to each epic and each epic belongs to each theme etc. However in this situation there is no indication about decomposing epics or user stories. We are talking about discussing how to implement them. try to get some clarifications and initial estimates which is usually done during the backlog refinement not story mapping meeting or brainstorming. During the brainstorming is a general meeting for trying to find out ideas, trying to get insights, how to perform work, how to collect, how to define requirements. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is C. Backlog refinement provides a chance for the product owner to discuss and address stories requirements with the team. This can involve discussing requirements, potential approaches, and even estimations in order to end up with a clear vision of how to approach stories. A project manager is leading a software project using a hybrid approach. During a lessons learned meeting, one of the team members complained that every time she submits a new piece of code, she finds many errors caused by the code changes made by her fellow developers. The project manager suggested testing, updating, and integrating new software code more frequently in order to reduce such errors. Which of the following techniques did the project manager suggest? Is it constant integration, consecutive integration, consistent integration, or continuous integration? Actually when we work on software projects and we find the need to test, update and integrate a new software code more frequently. This is known as continuous integration. So here a call for those who don't work in the software industry. You just need to understand that even though it's not something that you encounter in your project, you might be working in construction project or industrial projects. So you don't have such need of doing the testing, updating or integrating software piece of codes. So you don't have to understand how this is done. Okay, let's confirm the right answer. D is the right answer. Continuous integration dictates that all changes to the application source code base be frequently tested and integrated to reduce risks, improve quality and establish a quick, reliable and sustainable development base. All the other options are made up terms. Okay. So you should understand that continuous integration is the right technique used in software industry when it comes to delivering or integrating frequently. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a project to implement a new enterprise resource planning known as an ERP system or a local customer. A project manager guides the team to define the project requirements and details before moving to execution. So if we stop here, you can understand that we are working in a productive work environment because we are going to define the project requirements in details. Okay, before moving to execution, let's continue reading and learn more about the situation. The project will be delivered after 4 months. So we have fixed timeline but the customer will pay the organization in monthly installments. Okay. Let's see the question. Which of the following project development approaches is the project manager adopting? Is it predictive, adaptive, iterative or incremental? In this situation, we said that the situation implies a predictive approach. But here we are having a monthly installments when it comes to payment. Actually the payment installments doesn't intervene when it comes to decide about the project development approach. Therefore the right option is still a predictive approach. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes. Since requirements are fixed and deliverables will only be shipped at the end of the project. then the project manager is using a predictive approach. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is assigned to a 12 month project that has a $100,000 as budget. 6 months have passed and $60,000 has been spent. On closer inspection, the project manager finds out that so far only 40% of the work has been completed. The value of the completed 40 person work is referred to as here the value of the completed work we know that the value of the completed work is known as earned value. So don't need to investigate a lot of time on the other options since you already know for sure that the value of the completed work is called earned value. So let's confirm yes the right answer is B. Let's move on. A project manager is carrying out the initial planning activities for a gas by applying construction project when estimating the activity of installing 1,000 m of pipes. One team member states that they can run the same length of pipe in 14 hours on a previous similar project. Another team member claims that according to the current project conditions, it's possible to run 100 m of gas pipes per hour. Using the analogous estimating technique, how many hours will it take the team to run the gas pipelines? So here we have two estimations. We have the 14 hours and we have here the 100 m per hour. So for 1,000 it requires 10 hours. But this is known as the parametric estimates. And the question here asks about the analogous estimate. So A should be wrong. 11 and 12 we don't have any thing that could lead to these two numbers. So B and C are wrong. And the right option is D 14 hours because the first team member stated that according to their previous similar project they spent 14 hours. So the right answer should be 14 hours when it comes to analogous estimation. Let's confirm yes the right answer is D. And let's move to the next question. The project manager believes that being an active listener is not easy. She considers active listening to be more than an art than a skill. So she often encourages her team members to use a checklist of the key elements of active listening before any important meeting with stakeholders. Which of the following are regarded as elements of active listening? Select three. So let's check one by one. Making eye contact. Yes, this is good for active listening. Paraphrasing is also excellent for active listening. Interpreting information. Yes, that's good as well. Din interrupting when appropriate. This is not correct. Actually, you should not interrupt in any condition. So D should be wrong and the right options should be A, B and C. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is A, B and C. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a construction project of a shopping center. During the execution phase, the project manager received an approved change request from the client to modify the partition of the center. After checking the change request, the project manager realized that the budget allocated for its implementation might not be sufficient. Okay. So here the project manager notes that the change request is not appropriate. It lacks budget. So let's check the question. What should the project manager do next? Okay, here A. Discuss the budget of the change with the client. B implement the change since it's already approved. C reject the change request due to its inadequate budget and D disregard the change request since the project follows a predictive approach. I think here we can dismiss two options right away. Reject the change request is not appropriate because the project manager doesn't have the privilege or the power to reject a change request. So this is to dismiss right away. Disregard the change request. Also another option to dismiss because the project manager should not disregard any approval change request. And also the predictive approach does not prohibited submitting change request. It only says that in order to implement a change request, you need to follow the integrated change process. And that's it. For this situation, we can see that the sponsor gives the project manager an approved change request. So the process has been followed. But we notice something here. We notice that the project manager was not part of the change board because they received an approved change request and they find out that the budget is not appropriately allocated. So maybe if the project manager is within the board, they give their opinion about the budget. So in this case since the project manager finds out that there is something not appropriate it's better to discuss this with the client discuss with them inform them about this problem and the change request before starting the implementation. We know here that usually the project manager should implement the approved change requests. But here since the situation indicates that the project manager finds an error in the change request, then A is more appropriate than B. Let's confirm. Yes, the right answer is A. The project manager must discuss the impact of the change request on the project cost with the client. The project manager should not process the change request unless the client understands and accepts its impact. All right, let's move on to the next question. An activity has an early start of five, a late start of day 12, an early finish of day 10, and a late finish of day 17. Which of the following statements are correct regarding this activity? So in order to understand quickly what's the status of the activity we need to draw this activity like this and we usually have this early start here early finish here and late start here late finish here. So if we apply the numbers we have five here we have 10 here and we have 12 here and 17 here. Okay. So in order to know the duration of the activity, we subtract the early finish from the early start and we find that the activity is 5 days. But here we are looking whether the activity has a float or not. If the activity has a float then the activity is not on the critical path. If the activity does not have a float then it is on the critical path. The float we can find it through two ways. Either to subtract the early start from the last start or to subtract the early finish from the late finish. And in both cases it gives us seven as float which means that the activity has float and the activity is not on the critical path. So the right answer here should be B and C. the option D we don't know whether the activity has a lag or not because usually the lag is between two activities we have this activity and this activity and there is some time here and this is called a lag in our case we only have information about one activity we don't have information about the other activities so we cannot say that the activity has lag or not so let's confirm The right answer. Yes, the right answer is B and C. And since it has a 7day float, this activity is not on the critical path. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager decides to obtain her PMP certification in two months. She creates the following exam preparation plan. Weeks one to four, watch preparation course. Weeks five, six, take mock practice test. Week seven, time off. and week eight sit for the exam. However, in week five, the project manager had to attend a 7-day international conference, which meant posing her exam preparation for one week. To make up for the lost time, the project manager canled her week off and worked on mock test during weeks six and seven instead of weeks five and six, which means that this is she attended the conference. And here for six and seven she takes a mock practice test and seven is here no time off. So on the 18th a week she set for the exam. This is an example of what adaptability risk mitigation workound or corrective action. Actually we have this plan at the beginning of the project but during this project if we consider that preparation for the PMP is a project we have this incident. This was not previewed. So if this happens then there is workar around to deal with issues and this is exactly what this student have done but cancelled the time off and take this seventh week to do mock practice test. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the correct answer is C. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. During project execution, a team member reaches out to the project manager to inquire about the work they need to accomplish in this phase of the project. Which of these documents comprises thorough descriptions of work packages? Is it the WBS or WBS dictionary or activity list or scope management plan? Actually the scope management plan is a how-to document. It defines how to manage the scope. It doesn't comprises thorough description of work packages. So D is wrong. C is also wrong because the activity list is just a list with the names of the activities. It doesn't have thorough description. WBS also is a work breakdown structure with this kind of representation. And we only have the names of the packages and the names of the activities. So it doesn't include thorough description. And the right answer should be B here. Let's confirm. Yes, the right answer is B. And the WBS dictionary is the artifact or the document that includes thorough descriptions. Let's move to the next question. A project manager has been brought onto a project in a very early stages and has been asked to write its charter. Over the past week, the project manager met with a number of stakeholders, received their input, and is now ready to have the charter signed. Who can sign the project charter select? So, let's see within the list who can sign it. The project sponsor. Yes, the project sponsor can sign the project charter. The project steering company, yes, they can sign the project charter. The project manager, project manager, they cannot sign the project charter because they cannot authorize themsel to run the project. Usually the project charter is authorized by another party who is authorizing the project manager to manage the project or lead the project. So the project manager cannot the person who authorizes himself. D project management office. Yes, the PMO can authorize the project as well. So let's check the right answer. Yes, A, B, and D are the correct answers. During the iteration review, the project team was demonstrating new features to the product owner. The product owner was resting his hands on the table with a relaxed and open posture while occasionally fiddling with his pen or coffee mug without looking directly at the speaker. What kind of communication is the product owner using? We need to select two options among the four options that we are having here. Here it seems like the product owner is not happy with what's going on. So let's see whether we can find an indication of the product owner's behavior. A paralingual communication. What does this mean? It means that when you speak, you use the paralingual communication like shouting or showing excitement or something like that. For instance, if you are using paralling communication, instead of say hi, you say hi, how are you? You see the difference? So this is a kind of parilingual communication and we don't see here in this situation that the product owner speaks. So he doesn't use paralingual communication. That's why A should be dismissed. B active listening. Do you think that the product owner is actively listening to what's is going on? He he's fiddling with his pan and coffee mag. So for sure he's not actively listening to the demonstration. Let's see. C and D. They should be both correct. We don't have other options. See, implicit message. That's correct. The product owner is sending an implicit message to the team that the demonstration is not great. That's why he shows his frustration implicitly. And D nonverbal communication. That's correct to the open posture and these actions shows a nonverbal communication. So the right answer should be C and D. Let's confirm. Yes, non-verbal communication is used to convey implicit messages. It includes gestures, facial expressions, paral linguistics such as voice tone or volume, body language, personal space. You might be saying we have seen here the voice tone in parallel communication. That's right. And here I would like to add that parallel communication is just a part of non-verbal communication. So this is non-verbal communication and paralingual communication is just part of it because it only involves speaking. When you speak your voice, tone and volume are included. And non-verbal communication includes also body language, personal space, eye contact, touch, appearance as well. All these are part of nonverbal signals and communication. Okay, let's move on to the next question. While traditional project management follows predefined phases and sticks to the predetermined scope, agile project management approaches. Let's see what is the characteristics of agile project management. Encapsulate analysis, design, implementation and test within an iteration. That's possible actually in each iteration. We can do all this because we need to deliver increment by the end of the iteration. And in order to create a potentially shippable product by the end of the iteration, we need to do all this within the iteration. So that's making sense. Let's check the other options to confirm the right answer. B involve documenting, estimating, and sequencing each planned activity in detail. If you are doing this, you are doing a predictive or traditional project management because you are doing the planning of each iteration in detail. So usually in agile we don't do this. We try to detail the scope for the next sprint or the next few sprints and then we try to do the planning progressively and not at the beginning of the project. So that's makes B not a right answer. Use Gant chart. Gant chart is usually used with the predictive approach as well because we defined all activities and we sequenced these activities etc. So from the beginning of this option we can eliminate C. Let's check D. Map the iteration backlog into the work breakdown structure WBS. And here the WBS is also used in the predictive traditional project management. So that's what makes D is not a good option as well. The right answer should be A. Let's confirm. Yes, the iterative method is the heart of the development approach process. Each iteration generates a piece of the product until the final product is fully completed and delivered. All right. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a construction project. Throughout its execution, the project was influenced by both enterprise environmental factors and organizational process assets. Match the following statements with the corresponding influence category. A construction work requires a building permit from the city council. Okay, here we have an external entity which means that this option is environmental factor because it's not part of the project. This is outside factor for the project. So this is obviously an enterprise environmental factor. And here we can mention that we have two types for enterprise environmental factor. We have the external factor and we also have the internal factor. In our case A here since we have an external factor, it's obvious that we are dealing with an external enterprise environmental factor. Okay, let's check B. Workers who don't obey safety rules will be penalized. Here it's a process within the organization and we can easily link this to the organizational process assets. Here workers who don't obey safety rules will be penalized and it's in OPAs. Okay. See only authorized personnel are followed on site. This is also a process and since it's a process we link it to organizational process assets as well. The last option workers have expertise in infrastructure construction. Here the organization workers have expertise in infrastructure construction and we can notice here that this is not a process. It should be an enterprise environmental factor. And you might be saying here it's not external to the organization. Yes, you are right. Here we are dealing with an internal enterprise environmental factor. And also for whether it's an enterprise environmental factor or organizational process assets, we can classify them either positive or negative. Positive means that these enterprise environmental factor is going to influence the project positively or negatively as well as the process assets of the organization. You might be asking in our case workers who have expertise in infrastructure construction. This is considered as a positive enterprise environmental factor because we are having experts in the team. In some cases, if you are running a project and your team is not having enough knowledge, this is a problem and it's considered as a negative because it will negatively impact your project. This same for the process assets as well. Some processes are going to organize and help the project in some ways. Other processes on the other hands or so many processes could make the achievement of the project difficult could add some biocray and that's why we need to have a balance when it comes to processes. The organization should not set too many processes because this could hinder the development of the projects and also they should set a minimum of processes because without processes we could have chaos easily. All right, let's move on to the next question. For a museum construction project, concrete is poured after the completion of rebar and formwork. Now, workers must wait 14 days before removing the formwork as the concrete must be strong enough for this operation. The 14 days period is an example of lead, lag, free float or cycle time. All right, let's try to understand the difference of these terms in order to find out the right answer. Here when we have two tasks, then we have two tasks. These two tasks could be done in parallel. And this time of overlapping between task A and task B is called lead time. Okay. And uh since we are here waiting 14 days before removing the formwork then we are not talking about lead time. But wait a moment here. Lead time doesn't mean just one thing. It has another meaning. And the meaning of lead time is when you create a task. And the second meaning of lead time is that the time between creating a task and completing the task. For instance, if you decided to work on an item and you create that item in the product backlog. Okay, here you can see the two meanings of the lead time. And obviously we can conclude that this scenario is not a lead time. It's not an overlap between two tasks and also it is not the duration between the creation of the task and the completion of the task. So A here is wrong. Let's check B. B is the time between task A and task B. Here the lag time is when you complete task A and you wait for certain reasons until starting task B. Here it fits very well with our scenario because we poured the concrete and we need to wait 14 days before removing the formwork and that's a lag and that what makes the right answer be here. But let's complete checking the different definitions. The cycle time here is the time between start working on a task and completing the task. So it is not a cycle time in our case. free float when you have two activities let's say this is A and this is B and the late start of A for instance is day 10 and the early start of task B is day let's say 15 here okay so task A could have a delay of 4 days so it could finish at day 14 maximum in order to not impacting task B which is going to start on day 15. That's free float. In our case, we are not in this situation because we are not talking about any delays in the scenario. We are just setting the timeline of each task without considering any delays. And this is the lag that we need to put between the tasks A and B without considering any delays like we said. All right, let's let's check the right answer. Yes, lag time is when a delay is purposely made between activities and not caused by any factors. This is on purpose. Free float is when the delay is happening unpurposely. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project task is 90% complete. It cannot however be finished until another task is completed. What type of dependency is this? Select two. We have finish to start, finish to finish, mandatory dependency or discretionary dependency. Okay. So here since we cannot complete the second task until finishing the previous task then the relationship is mandatory here. It's not discretionary. Discretionary here means optional or not mandatory. Okay. So here C should be right and D should be wrong. Now let's focus whether it's a finish to start or finish to finish. Let's check the different options we have when it comes to precedence relationship. Here we have this finish to start and finish to finish. You cannot finish A for finish to start. You need to finish A in order to start working on B. Here you need to finish A in order to be able to finish B. So this is what is the situation we have. We cannot finish A. It's in 90% until we can finish the other task. Okay, which is B. So here we have the finish to start wrong and the finish to finish right. So the right answer should be B and C. That's confirmed. Yes, B and C are the right answers for this question. Let's move on to the next question. An experienced project manager believes that managers should embrace transparency in their projects as its many benefits often outweigh its disadvantages. However, the project manager thinks that while it's favorable to share many aspects with the project team, there are a few things that shouldn't be shared with everyone. As a project manager, you must be transparent about confidential information. Should you be transparent about confidential information? Of course not. Confidential information should be confidential. You should not talk about confidential information in public with anyone that should not have access to such information. Proparatory information. I don't think this should be right as well. and proven information and gossip like this is obvious that is not the right answer as well. Gossip and unproven information should not be communicated by the project manager. And finally, decision making processes. This is what the project manager should be transparent about. Why is that? Because when you are transparent about decision making, it makes all the stakeholders involved in this decision comprehensive about the outputs about your approaches and you will have less conflicts. Okay, let's confirm. Yes, the right answer is D. The project manager must demonstrate transparency regarding their decision making processes. Let's move on to the next question. An organization operate in the oil and gas industry and tends to sign an agreement with a contractor to get provided with experts, technical knowhow and mechanical spare parts. Since the organization's projects consist of building innovative high-tech machines, the exact description of the work involved is not clear. So we are here not having a clear scope. We don't have clear description of the work. What type of contract should the organization sign with the contractor? Okay. Is it a fixed price incentive fee? We know that fixed price whatever it is with incentive or without incentive is not good when it comes to unclear scope. So A should be wrong because we don't use fixed price with non-clear scope. Here D as well firm fixed price is also should be dismissed right away because the work scope is not clear. We remains with B and C cost plus award fee and time and materials. The best among the two options is the time and material because cost plus award fee could be risky for the organization because the cost could increase a lot since the scope is not defined. Where is time and materials you already know the rate whether it's the hourly rates or the daily rates or whatever. So you are having some controls and you can adopt this since you have a nonclear scope. Let's confirm. Yes, the right answer is C. When you need to hire technical experts, you should use a time and materials contract. A time and material contract is a hybrid of fixed price and cost reimbursible contract. This type of contract is suitable for projects with no precise scope of work or when it is hard to determine the required duration and material to get the job done. All right. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is in the phase of planning the redesign of a commercial building. The project team includes one carpenter who is only available to work part-time. Okay. Since the carpenter's work is on the critical path, the project manager has to push back the project's planned completion date. Push back the project's planned completion date to accommodate the carpenters's availability. All right. What technique did the project manager use? Is it load balancing, resource loading, resource leveling, or resource smoothing? Okay, here we can remove an option right away. Load balancing is actually not related to project management. It's related to information technology. When you are dealing with servers and you need to load the traffic or the processes, you need to balance loading the processes or servers or traffic to different servers. And obviously a is wrong here. We remain with three options. Resource loading. Resource loading is also not appropriate here. We use resource loading when we have different resources. When we have resources that are using the same thing, for example, since we have four carpenters and maybe one carpenter have a very high load of work and the other carpenter doesn't have a lot of work and we do a resource loading. So all the four carpenters have the appropriate volume of work and we are not in such situation as well. So resource loading is not the right option either. We remain with resource leveling or resource smoothing. Let's explain the difference between both here. Imagine that we are in such a situation. In this situation, we are here having a limit of 35 hours limit which is the number of hours per week. And in order to do the resource leveling, we try to update the schedule and let the resource do the work appropriately according to the time frame that they can do the work at. And in such a case, this workload is splitted into two weeks instead of one week. And we can obviously see that instead of finishing all work by the fourth week, we will finish the work by week five. This is called resource leveling. On the other hand, for smoothing, you try to limit the work, accommodate the constraints that you are having without changing the schedule like trying to find if there is another spot like try to smooth the situation. In such a case, you bring this to this area during week four in order to complete the work and not change the schedule. So in our case since we are adapting the schedule to accommodate the part-time work of the carpenter now we are talking about the resource leveling and the right answer here should be resource leveling not resource smoothing. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is C. Resource leveling is used to optimize resource allocation by adjusting the activities start and finish dates. This often results in changing the original critical path as was the case in the described scenario. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is carrying out a project using the agile approach with two week sprints. One week into the current sprint, the team hasn't completed any of the sprint backlog items, making it impossible to achieve the sprint goal. What should the project manager do here? This sprint goal is a brief description about the objective of the sprint. And here we are going to see and in this scenario the team hasn't completed any of the sprint backlog items which makes achieving the whole sprint goal not possible. Let's see what the project manager can do. A cancel the sprint, hold an early retrospective meeting and start over with a new energy. Is the project manager in agile can cancel the sprint? No, the project manager in agile cannot do that. Only the product owner can have the right to do that. That's what makes a not the right answer. Discuss with the team the root cause of their poor performance during the stand-up meeting. Okay, the first part is good, but the second part here is not good at all. The stand-up meeting is used to sync the planning of the day between the development team members and also it is used to capture the blockers by the project manager and capturing the blockers doesn't mean that doing root cause analysis and all this stuff during this meeting because if we do it this way the standup meeting will last for longer than 15 minutes. So ideally the project manager can do the root cause analysis but after the standup meeting in a separate meeting standup meeting is just a short meeting we can capture like we said the uh blockers we can briefly guide team members but we cannot have discussions of the root causes and stuff like that and stay for a very long time discussing poor performance in such a meeting. Okay, so that's what makes B not the right option either. Let's check C. Discuss with the product owner the possibility of updating this print goal to make it more achievable. Okay, here the goal we set is a description and you can lower the bar and instead of for instance developing whole page the objective will be developing let's say just a single functionality within the page that's most probably will demotivate the team and it's also not going to resolve the problem I don't like it much but let's cd here and confirm whether we can find a better option or not. Invite the product owner and the team to renegotiate the sprint backlog and help the team overcome the encountered problems. I think D is way much better than C because with D you are going to proactively maximize achieving the sprint goal. If we imagine that this is the sprint goal, instead of lowering it, maybe trying to achieve 50% of it or 60% of it and keep the same goal, it's better than you just try to lower the goal. So here by inviting the product owner and the team to renegotiate the sprint backlog which means that since we are not able to finish the sprint maybe we could remove some items that are not contributing too much to the sprint goal. Also we can prioritize this sprint backlog so the product owner could tell the team hey you know what in the remaining week try to do these two items they are the top priority. So this is a renegotiation of the sprint backlog and setting the priorities and the project manager should continue supporting the team and try to resolve the problems and help the team. Let's confirm here. The right answer is D. Since the cross functional team were unable to complete any of the user stories, the best course of action is to meet with the product owner and try to maximize the value of the sprint and achieve most of the sprint goal by renegotiating the sprint backlog. All right, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is facilitating a meeting to define the user stories of the next iteration. Two team members, Charlotte and Sam, get too vocal during the meeting. Charlotte believes that user story 2 is clear enough while Sam thinks it's ambiguous and needs further elaboration. The team moves on to the next user story, ignoring Sam's point of view, unfortunately. All right, let's see what's going on. Sam accepts the team's decision and remains quiet for the rest of the meeting. That's too sad. At the end of the meeting, the project manager tells Sam that user story 2 could be reviewed during the iterations first week when more information is available. Which of the following conflict resolution technique did some use in this scenario? Is it smoothing, compromising, forcing or withdrawal? Here smoothing actually this technique was used by the project manager because the project manager tried to lower the impact of the conflict by saying it's not problem we can review it during the iteration like it's not a big deal try to lower the impact of the conflict. So it's not a technique that is used by some that's why a is not the right answer. compromising. Actually, there is no compromise in the situation since Charlotte didn't give any to Sam or Sam didn't give anything to Charlotte in order to come up to a solution. So, both parties didn't compromise on the conflict and there is no compromise here. Forcing forcing actually is used by Charlotte. Charlotte here forced her decision by letting this user story number two into the iteration without doing any further clarification. The last option is withdrawal which is exactly what Sam did here. Sam did withdrawal technique since he remains quiet for the rest of the meeting and accepts Charlotte's decision. All right, let's confirm. Yes, the right answer is D. In the described scenario, Sam had to concede his position to maintain harmony during the meeting. This conflict resolution technique is referred to as withdrawal or avoidance, which results in a lose leave situation. During the project execution phase, the change control board CCB approved a change request that no one on the project team knew how to implement. What should the project manager do to deal with this situation? We have two right options here. Let's check what are these two options. A document the issue in the issue log. Okay, we know that when we encounter an issue, we record it in the issue log and we do this in order to check later on what issues we have faced also who is taking care of the issues, who is the issue owner and all this documentation associated with the issue along with the resolution of the issue if the issue gets resolved. But here in the question we are asking about what the project manager should do to deal with this issue. It's like more how the project manager can resolve this issue. So that's why a is not an attractive option because documenting the issue doesn't contribute in resolving it. So let's check other options in order to confirm whether we can find other two better options or not. B, hire a subject matter expert. And obviously, hiring a subject matter expert could remove ambiguity and could help the project team implement this new task. So, hiring the subject matter expert could help and B is obviously a right option. C formally request the CCB to revoke its decision. Actually revoking a decision is not a solution because since the CCB approved the change request, they see value in this change request. It's for the project manager to find ways in implementing this change request. Therefore, asking the CCB to revoke the decision is not a good course of action. C is wrong. and D ask the team to do more research on how to implement the approved change request is a way of collecting more data doing research and by collecting more information we can have more idea about the change request and how to implement it. So D is making a lot of sense and the right answer should be B and D. Let's confirm. Yes, hiring a subject matter expert and conducting more research will help your team implement the change request. This is considered as a problem-solving approach since it entails finding solutions to the encountered issues or challenges. Here according to the payback seventh edition uncertainty can be reduced by collecting more information through conducting research engaging experts or performing a market analysis. All right, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is evaluating a potential industrial project to determine whether its anticipated financial gains will outweigh its present day investment. The project manager uses the net present value NPS as an effective tool to help her determine whether the project will be profitable or not. For instance, net present value higher than zero means the project will lose money. No. The project will break even. No. The project is profitable. Yes. We cannot know until the return of investment is calculated. Actually, we can know if we have an NPS more than zero, then we can predict that the project is profitable. Let's confirm. Yes, the larger the net present value, the more profitable the project will be for the organization. A positive net present value indicates that the investment is worthwhile. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a small team of developers using project management software that includes a canban board. After receiving many questions from team members on how to create, review and validate tasks or issues, the project manager decides to create the following chart. Okay, so let's try to understand this chart. We have here the to-do list issue in the to-do list year issue could also mean user story since in software industry some companies using GitHub and for GitHub they use issues very commonly in that platform. So here if I say issue you can imagine it as a user story as well. So we have to-do list here in progress function review and the done. You can imagine the canban board as this. We have this four columns. This is the to-do and this is the in progress. This is the functional review and this is the done. Okay. Here it shows what is the steps. If we have an issue here or user story here then the developer starts working on the issue. The developer must move the issue to the in progress. So if the developer starts working on this issue, they should move it here. Then the issue is in the in progress. The developer ends working on the issue, the developer must move it to the functional. If the developer ends working on it, it must be moved here. Then in the functional, the reviewer ends reviewing the issue. And there is a decision here. Reviewer requests some changes. Yes. then reviewer should move the issue back to the in progress status. If the reviewer didn't find any issues, the reviewer must move it to the done column here. So this is a workflow and the diagram shows the flow of the work and this is called a flow chart. This chart is showing how the work flows from the beginning till the end. It's not a par chart. It's not a context diagram. It's not a scatter diagram either. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is B. A flowchart, also referred to as a process map, progress flow, and progress flow diagram graphically displays the logical order of a process. All right, let's move on to the next question. A project manager intends to talk to her manager about obtaining additional resources or complex activities that her team is enabled to perform. We can understand here that this is functional organization. Since the project manager asks the manager to obtain additional resources, we can call this manager functional manager as well. Okay, these resources will roll off the project as soon as the activities are completed. Okay, here that's obvious. We are in a functional organization. Which of the following skills does the project manager need the most in this situation? A planning skills to identify resource requirements. Okay, here the project manager needs planning skills to obtain the required skills. But it's not I think the most skill that they need in this situation. In this situation they are asking for more resources additional resources. So planning skills is not that relevant. I think A is not appropriate here. B interpersonal skills to convince her manager of her need for additional resources. This is actually very relevant to the situation. I think B is excellent. But let's confirm with C and D as well. Interviewing skills to hire the required resources. I think if we compare B and C, I think B is more relevant. Technical skills to respond to the risk associated with adding more resources. I think what the project manager needs most in this situation is B because if the functional manager didn't agree then that's a problem and the project manager needs interpersonal skills to convince the functional manager. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is B. Trying to convince upper management requires the use of interpersonal skills which are often needed when acquiring resources. Okay, let's move on to the next question. After baselining the scope and during project execution, a key stakeholder who is a member of the change control board requested a new requirement. Okay, so this is a new change request that we are having here in this situation. The project manager is convinced that this new requirement can add value to the project. What should the project manager do? implement the change request since the key stakeholder is a member of the CCB. Okay, the CCB could have many members. Imagine here the CCB we have one 2 3 and five members. Okay, and this fifth member is the key stakeholder. If this fifth member accepts the change request, but how about the other four member if they don't agree with this key stakeholder? So I think the project manager should not implement the change request without going through the CCB even though the request comes from a member from the CCB. All right. A is a wrong option. B implement the change request since it will add value to the project. Okay. It adds value to the project from the project manager perspective. Right? How about the other change control board members? Maybe they don't see value in it. So I think the project manager should not implement it since he does not have the approval from all the members and that's makes B a wrong option as well. C submit a change request according to the change control system. That's the right course of action that the project manager should follow. Submitting a change request. And once the change request is on the hand of all the CCB members, they can review it and either approve it or reject it or defer it to another time. Okay. So D here record the change request in the change log. D is also possible. the project manager could record the change request in the change log and keep watching that change request even before submitted it to the change control board. But I think the best option if I compare C and D, I would prefer selecting C more than D because C is having more priority. Then we can do the documentation later on. Okay, let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the correct answer is C. Regardless of the fact that the change was requested by a member of the CCB, the project manager should submit a change request according to the procedures defined in the change control system. Okay, let's move on to the next question. The project manager has just joined a new organization. A majority of the organization's projects are conducted by experienced project managers. What should be the primary focus of the new project manager? Let's what should the project manager do first? Acquire skillful team. Okay. Learn about the organization's culture. Okay. Since they joined a new organization, this could be a good option. Let's see the different other options. Get to know the organization's executive managers. get to know the organization's project managers. All right. So depending on whether the new project assigned to this new project manager is having a relationship with the other projects, we can prioritize C and D. But I would say that B is the top priority for this new project manager. Learn about the organization's culture. So that helps the project manager a lot with all the rest. Then it comes acquiring skillful team or getting to know the executive managers or project managers. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, B is the right answer. When joining a new organization, it's very important that the project manager grasps the organization's culture. Although talking to executive managers and project managers may help in this matter, understanding the culture, how the organization operates, its policies and its appetite for risk among other things should be the project managers first priority when joining a new organization. So even though if they would like to get to know managers and project managers, their primary focus should be to learn the culture of the organization. All right, let's move on to the next question. After completing the creation of the scope statement, a project manager wanted to make sure that all of the project deliverables were identified and could be managed effectively. So she opted for the one of these methods to develop the WBS in order to capture all of the projects details. Okay. So she needs to use one of these methods to develop the WBS. Scope decomposition is a technique because we are composing the scope which we find in the scope statement and we develop the WBS by doing the decomposition technique. So the right answer should be a here without even deep dive into the other options. Let's confirm. Yes, scope decomposition is a planning method used to decompose and subdivide the project and scope deliverables into more manageable small work units. The decomposition level depends on the complexity and size of the project. All right, let's move on to the next question. Adopting a predictive approach to plan an agriculture project. A project manager chooses these methods to estimate the cost by using the work breakdown structure. Is it analogous? We don't use WBS to come up with analogous estimation. Actually for analogous estimation we use previous projects. For instance, we have project A, project B, and we have this new project C and we find out if our project C is similar to A, then the cost of A could be similar to the cost of the new project C. This is analogous. But in our case, we are using WBS. So analogous is not used in this case. Parametric also parametric is not the right option because in parametric we are using a unit for instance we have this for one meter of work for instance for one unit of work it costs let's say 10,000 since we have five units it costs $50,000 we are not using such scenario in this case now we left with two options top down or bottom up top down actually is similar to analogous and top down is a high level estimation you check from top and that's why C is also not the right option the right option is bottom up in our case for instance if we are having this WBS we are going to estimate from bottom here to up and we are going to estimate the cost needed for each of the work packages pages. Then for instance here we sum landing page and web page. This is $6,000. And we sum these two values. This is 10,000. And for the coding 16 we sum these two values. Same here. We sum this 31 4,000 the design 4,000 and all the project is $20,000. So we are here summing from bottom to reaching the total here for the project. This is the bottom up estimate. This is the WBS. Okay. So, let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is D. The bottom up method can be used as an estimation technique for the project's overall cost by estimating the approximate value of smaller components and using the total sum of these values to find the overall cost. Let's move on to the next question. The project manager is assigned to an industrial project that follows a predictive approach. During the risk planning phase, the project manager decided to create a contingency reserve for what? Passive risk acceptance, active risk acceptance, workaround or unidentified risks. For contingency reserve, we know that it's used for risks that we know about. And the risks that we don't know about are usually concerned with workarounds and unidentified risks. So we can eliminate C and D right away. We can see here the graph showing that we have two types of risks. Those are identified and those that are not identified. And when these risks happen, we apply a workaround. And usually we use management reserve for these kind of risks. So here we are not using the contingency reserve. The contingency reserve is used when the risks are identified and we apply the risk response. So since we apply the risk response, so we are actively accepting the risk. We are going to accept the risk and we are preparing a plan for the risk. So we are actively accepting the risk and in case we are passively accepting the risks we don't do anything here for the identified we have two options either actively accept and in this case we use the risk response we plan the responses and we use the contingency reserve and for the passive acceptance we don't do anything we don't plan for these risks we know that there is risks but we don't do any actions other than monitoring them. And in this case when they happen we do a workar around and we use the management reserve as well. And in our scenario since we are using contingency reserve then we are actively accepting risks. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes. Risk acceptance acknowledges the existence of a threat but no proactive action is taken. The most common active acceptance strategy is to establish a contingency reserve including time, money, or resources to handle the threat if it occurs. All right, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a project outside of her expertise field. During a planning meeting, two team members engage in a heated debate concerning the suitable way to implement a certain project requirements. What should the project manager do? Put an end to the discussion to avoid getting the meeting out of control. So imagine you do this. What you going to do afterwards? What's the conclusion? You don't get any decision about the suitable way to implement the requirement. So you don't resolve any of the issues. Just putting the end of the discussion is not going to resolve the issue. That's why A should be wrong. Let's check B. Help team members decide the best way to implement the concerned requirement. This is good actually. This is the role of the project manager by facilitating a meeting. I think B is a good option. But let's check C and D. Inform team members that the final decision should be taken by her after listening to their opinions. Actually, we said here that the project manager is leading a project outside of her expertise since she doesn't have enough information how she could make the decision. So, this is not making any sense actually. So, let's check D. Let the most experienced team member decide. If the project manager used this technique, then they are forcing the decision. And the forcing problem solving approach is not usually the best approach. It is best to work for a collaborative approach and problem solving that could benefit both team members and could benefit the project. So the right answer should be B here. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes. Taking into consideration the project manager's lack of technical knowledge, she should not interfere in the decision making process when it comes to the best way of implementing the concerned project requirements. The project manager should let subject matter experts which are the team members decide since they have the needed knowledge and experience to make the right decision. A project manager is assigned to manage a software development project. When she came across one of the project key stakeholders in the company's hallway, the project manager seized the opportunity to get his feedback. The key stakeholder was impressed with the project's progress and requested from the project manager to urgently add a new user story to improve the product's user interface UI. What should the project manager do next? Okay, let's see the different options. A welcome the stakeholders request and add the user story to the sprint backlog. If you add user story to this print backlog, which means that the development team should work on this user story right away, which also means that you are going to change the plan of the current sprint and you didn't ask the product owner to do that since here the project manager is going to add the user story to the current sprint. So that what makes the option wrong here A is not correct. But however keep in mind if instead of mentioning sprint backlog and you find product backlog here then magically this option will be correct because if the project manager puts it in the product backlog it means that the development team will not work on it right away. they will wait until the product owner validates the user story and they agreed on to bring it to the sprint backlog of the next sprints. So be careful when you see the different options. The product backlog and the sprint backlog are not the same thing. We have talked about this in many videos in the agile approach section. All right, let's see be here. Add the user story to the product backlog. You see here now it's in the product backlog. It's a good start for this option and schedule it for the next sprint to protect the team from disruption. Okay, here the first part is good. What I didn't like about this option is that the project manager decides to schedule it for the next sprint. So the project manager took the decision to prioritize the user story. Even though the stakeholder he said that we need to urgently add this user story, it doesn't mean that the project manager make the decision. The product owner is the owner of the product and the owner of the product backlog and is the only one who prioritize tasks. That's why I'm going to dismiss B as well. Let's see the third option. Add the user story to the product backlog. That's fine. And let the product owner decide its priority. This is actually very good because here the project manager is not taking the product owner responsibility. They just added it to the product backlog and let the product owner decide about the priority. That's good. Let's check D. refused to create the user story since it's the product owner's responsibility to maintain and refine the product backlog. Okay, it's not wrong that the product owner responsibility to maintain and refine the product backlog but anyone can add user stories. The project manager could add user stories. The development team, key stakeholders or any stakeholder involved in this project could add user story and the final say remains with the product owner. the product owner could archive these user stories if the product owner doesn't agree with the user story. So anyone is welcomed to add changes. That's why refusing to create the user story is not the right course of action and the right option should be C. Let's confirm yes. The correct answer is C. When a new requirement is received, it should be added to the product backlog and then prioritized by the product owner in order to be implemented. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project involved dozens of stakeholders. Most of them need highlevel information and updates about the project status while the rest need more detailed information and frequent updates. Therefore, the project manager decides to set up an action plan to respond to these different requirements. What should the project manager create? Power trust grid, stakeholder register or stakeholder engagement plan or stakeholder engagement assessment metrics. Okay, here the project manager would like to create an action plan to respond to these different requirements. So the power interest grid is just mapping of the stakeholders. It doesn't give us a detailed plan on how to deal with each of the stakeholders. That's why it's not the right answer. D is also a mapping technique. We used stakeholder engagement assessment metrics to define whether the stakeholders are supportive, they are not supportive, are they neutral, are they aware or not aware and stuff like that. So this is also doesn't include a detailed action plan on how to respond to these different stakeholders. Stakeholder register is a list of all the stakeholders. We could include their contacts. We could include some information but it doesn't necessarily have an action plan. It's mainly to have a record of all the stakeholders. And the best course of action for this project manager is to develop a stakeholder engagement plan. Stakeholder engagement plan could include the different steps of involving and engaging the stakeholders. Let's confirm yes. The right answer is C. The stakeholder engagement plan sets up strategies and actions to ensure the positive and effective involvement of all stakeholders in the project. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager joins a company which has recently gone through major organizational changes. The new project manager is very concerned about the team's lack of motivation and closely monitors when they arrive and leave work. This is a very severe project manager. Sometimes we find these kinds of project managers who are very concerned about their team and they try to micromanage them. What type of management style does the new project manager exhibit? Is it theory X Y Z or XY? I didn't heard about this theory before. So most probably it's a madeup term in your PMP exam. If you are well prepared, you might find some new keywords. So be careful if the keyword you never encounter. Maybe it's a made up term. So try to avoid it. 80% or 90% the words that you don't understand are wrong options. So for our case, this is I didn't encounter. So most probably it's wrong. Theory zed here is for long-term fulfillment and retention of employees which is not the case here and we remain with theory X or theory Y and the difference is that X is an authoritarian repressive style tight control no development for the project team while the theory Y is liberating and open style empower team members and try to help them to continually improve. So if we compare X and Y, we find that our project manager is exhibiting the theory X. Let's confirm the right answer. And yes, Douglas Mcreger defines two models of worker behavior X and Y. And these are the differences. Okay, let's move on to the next question. The project manager has developed the project schedule using the network diagramming method and has calculated the overall project duration. However, the project manager was surprised to find three critical paths. What should the project manager do next? Approve the network diagram and closely monitor all three critical paths. This should be okay. So, let's see the different other options. Approve the network diagram and close the monitor the longest path among the three. Actually the definition of a critical path is the longest path. And since we have three critical paths that means that the three critical paths should have the same length. So here it doesn't make sense to have one longer than the other and B is obviously a wrong option. re-examine the network diagram since it's supposed to only have one critical path. It's fine because sometimes we have two or three critical paths, sometimes even more. And in such a case, the project will be more risky because any delay of any task could lead to delaying the project. And once we have too many critical paths means that we have too many tasks which are critical which means that the probability of having the project delayed is more. So we need to closely monitor these critical paths. So see here is wrong. It's fine to have more than one critical path. Reexamine the network diagram since it is not supposed to have more than two critical paths. We said that it's possible to have many critical paths. So D is wrong as well. And the right answer should be A. Let's confirm. Yes, the right answer is A. And the project manager should approve the network diagram and closely monitor all these critical paths. All right, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is assigned to lead a construction project for the first time. 3 months in here. When you find 3 months in, it means that we are in the execution phase. The project manager notes that the running cost is higher than expected. So he decides to assess the project's financial status by calculating the difference between the earned value and the actual cost. What is the project manager calculating? Is it the cost performance index or the cost variance or the planned value or the to complete performance index? Actually here we have the difference and once we have the difference it's the variance not the index. So immediately we eliminate cost performance index and to complete performance index. And here we have the cost variance planned value. Planned value is defined in the planning phase. So it's a wrong option and the correct option is cost variance which is the difference between the earned value and the actual cost. Okay, let's see here. The correct answer is B. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is in charge of an ergonomic chair design project. Upon the identification of some technical risks, the project manager decides it's best to create a prototype. Okay, this is an example of risk acceptance, avoidance, transfer or mitigation. Here, when we have acceptance, it means passive acceptance because we didn't define whether it's active or passive. If we encounter passive alone, it means passive acceptance. And passive acceptance involves doing nothing. Just accept the risk and monitor it during the execution and do not do any kind of planning or setting contingency reserve or anything like that. And in our scenario, the project manager decides to do something, decides to create a prototype. So it's obviously not an acceptance risk strategy. It's not a passive acceptance risk strategy. B avoidance here by avoiding a risk you eliminate it which means that you are trying to 100% eliminate the risk. No chance that you have problems or technical risks that in our case the prototype is not going to eliminate this technical risks. It's going to reduce it. So that's why avoidance is not correct as well. Transfer is not correct as well because we don't see any third party that we are going to transfer the risk to. There is no insurance company. There is no other entity to transfer the risk. That's why C is wrong. And the correct option is D. We are mitigating the risk of technical issues by doing a prototype. So we are not eliminating the risk. We are reducing the risk. That's exactly the definition of mitigation strategy. Let's confirm. Yes, risk mitigation can imply a prototype development in order to prevent the risk from scaling up. Creating a prototype will support the testing and through testing you can generate the necessary data to probably even close the risk. To keep cost low, you can opt for partial prototypes for the specific portions of the process that involve the risk. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager noted that multiple interpersonal conflicts are arising among team members. What is the best way to handle such conflicts? The project manager should always smooth conflicts since they distract the team and hinder work progress. Okay. So smoothing conflicts means that you are going to downsize the importance of the conflicts and by lowering the importance of conflicts you are not going to resolve them just you are going to postpone the problem and you are not going to collaboratively resolve the problem. So this is not effective method and maybe in the other options we could find a better option. Let's see be here. The project manager should address conflicts in open meetings so that the entire team can contribute to finding a solution. I don't like here address them in open meetings. We know that there are two types of conflicts. When it comes to technical conflicts, discussing them in open meetings is good. But when it comes to interpersonal conflicts, maybe uh talking to team members privately and try to understand what are the motivations, what are the characters of the different team members in private manner is better than having such an open discussions with all the team members. So I don't like B either. I think maybe we should find a better option. C. The project manager should address conflicts proactively and privately using collaborative and direct approaches. This is way much better than A and B. And the project manager here try to proactively resolve the problem not smoothing them and try to privately deal with this interpersonal conflicts not openly with other members. So this is better actually. Let's check D. The project manager should be firm and use his coercive power to quickly resolve conflicts. We have seen that if the quickly used then it's most probably not a good option. And here coercive power is not good either because the team will just fear you. They will not improve their interpersonal skills and they will just act differently when you are there. But when you are not there, they will have conflict with each other. So D is not a good option and the best option is C. Let's confirm. Yes, conflict should be addressed as early as possible. So proactively using collaborative and direct approaches. It's also recommended that interpersonal conflicts be handled privately among concerned team members rather than in open meetings. Technical conflicts on the other hand should be discussed in open meetings so that the entire team can participate in finding a solution. When disruptive conflicts persist, you should resort to formal procedures including but not limiting to disciplinary actions. All right, let's move on to the next question. The project manager is responsible for running the project quality assurance report while reviewing a control chart. The project manager observes nine data points in a row on one side of the mean. What should the project manager do here? The project manager is using a control chart. And in this case, you need to remember how the control chart looks like and what are the different problems we have when it comes to controlling quality using this tool. Okay, let's review together how the control chart looks like. And this is the control chart. And within this chart we have an upper control limit and lower control limit. And we have this mean. The mean here is 50 like you can see. And we have seen in this scenario that the project manager observes nine data points in a row on one side of the mean which means that we are here having the rule of seven. The rule of seven is when we have seven or more data points on one side of the mean. Here we have nine data points on one side of the mean. So obviously we are having this rule of seven. And when we have a data point outside of the tolerance area like in this case it's an assignable cause we need to find the root cause of this problem. Also we need to find the root cause of this problem because when we have this kind of behavior it means that later on we are going to go far from the mean. It also means that our data are precise but are not accurate and we need to have an accurate data since our mean is here. We need always our data to be close to the mean like in this case. Okay. Here it's close to the mean that's fine but if we have this or if we have this then that's a big problem. Let's check here what should the project manager do carry out a design of experiments. Actually this is not going to resolve the issue that we have seen. Actually design of experiments is when we are using different inputs in order to find out some outputs in order to assess situations. And we use this usually when we have issues. So A is not correct. Make the necessary changes to the chart to reflect the new mean. Actually, you should not change the chart. You should fix the product or process in order to make data close to the mean and not changing the mean. So B is not making sense. Identify the assignable cause. This what should the project manager do? The project manager should understand why we have nine consecutive data points on one side of the mean. Okay, let's check D. This is the rule of seven, meaning it can be disregarded. The rule of seven should not be disregarded. It should be analyzed and try to understand its assignable cause. And the right answer is C. Yes, the right answer is C. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager gives the project team members the freedom to make decisions expecting them to solve issues on their own. Which of the following leadership approaches does the project manager adopt? Here we know that if the project manager is giving freedom to the team to make decisions then it should be a lesser leadership. That's the definition of the leftoair leadership. It's a French word. It means let them do. The project manager is not involved in the decision making and this is convenient when the project manager is not having enough knowledge or is having too much confidence on their team. And let's confirm. Yes, this is the right answer. And as you can see here, it's a French term that means allo to act or do. This leadership style is ideal for a highly skilled team since it's characterized by a hands-off approach. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is managing an online e-learning platform. The project team is following the Scrum framework and every few weeks they release a new version that includes more features, user interface changes, bug fixes, security patches, etc. In order to avoid confusing users with the continuous changes, the project manager decides to make all release information accessible to the platform members under the new section of the website. What type of communication is the project manager intends to use? Is it push communication or interactive communication or pull communication or proactive communication? There is one option that we can eliminate immediately. Interactive is not correct because here we have just going to have a news section on the website that includes information. Interactive communications means that we are discussing over phone or we are discussing in a meeting face to face or over a video conference or something like that. So it is not interactive to have a news section on the website. Proactive communication is also not a right option. Proactive is usually related to actions and it is not common to have a proactive communication and we left with push or pull now communication and the difference is that we use push in order to give the end user or the stakeholder information right away. So here you are pushing information to the stakeholder. For instance, you pick up the phone, you call someone, you are pushing the communication to that person. For the pool on the other hand, you let the user the information is here and the user or stakeholder is here. And if they need this information, they go and take that information. and they know where it is and they try to pull the information to them and if they don't need the information they don't do anything and they don't pull the information to them. Imagine if you are in a front of a door and in that door you have pull and you can understand that in order to open the door you need to make action. So that's the meaning of pull and that's exactly the situation we are having on hand. The users here should go to the website, check the news section in order to find the latest updates. If they don't do that, nothing happens. They are not bothered with all the changes. That's the pull communication. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the described scenario involves an example of pull communication. BMBA defined three types of communication. Interactive, push, and pull. That's why proactive here is a made up term. All communication is a communication type where access to the information is provided. However, the receiver must proactively seek out and retrieve this information. Usually, this technique is used when the information is not critical for the progress of the project. It will not harm the project if the user doesn't get this information right away or even doesn't get it at all. So keep that in mind when to use pool communication. Don't use pull communication for critical information. After introducing a new foreign developer to the team, the project manager noted that a certain senior team member seems to be avoiding any interaction with him. What should the project manager do? That sometimes happens and unfortunately if we find rejects from existing team members we need to proactively take action. So let's see whether in these four options we have a proactive action by the project manager. Okay here we have talk notify the functional manager. This should be wrong actually because here is an escalation method and I think in this situation the project manager needs to deal with the situation before escalating. So this is in the project manager's responsibility to deal with their team members look best. This is not proactive. This is ignoring look best. So eliminating address the issue. So by just reading the few words from the different options, we are able to eliminate two options. That's great. Actually, you can use this technique if you don't have enough time. If you have the pressure to complete the questions quickly, just read from the beginning and see if there is a good course of actions or not. Okay, let's now complete reading this A and D and compare each other. A talk to the senior team member privately to try and find out the reason behind this is good actually usually when you find that there is analysis of the root cause then that's good the reason behind his behavior while making it clear that discrimination is neither tolerated nor accepted that's a good option here but let's check D as well address this issue in the next team meeting by scolding the team. Scolding here means that you are going to severely ordering the team member to not doing that in the future and lecturing everyone about the importance of an inclusive work environment. Doing that in team meeting and scolding team member in front of their colleagues is not a good course of action. That's why D is not good and A is the best option. Let's confirm. Yes, excellent. The correct answer is A. The project manager should talk to the senior team member privately to get to know the reason behind their behavior and make clear that they should not discriminate their colleagues. All right, let's move on to the next question. A product owner started the day with a sprint planning meeting to discuss and define the goal and backlog of the new sprint. Which of the following options is correct regarding the sprint planning meeting? Let's check the different options. A discussion between the product owner, the scrum master and the crossf functional team. Yes, usually we have these three rules in the sprint planning meeting. Let's check the other options. Discussion between cross functional team members only. That's not correct when it comes to sprint planning. But for standup meeting, that's fine. We could have standup meetings with cross functional team members only. In many cases, the scrum master joins the standup meeting, but it's not mandatory. So B is wrong when it comes to sprint planning. Discussion between the product owner and the scrum master. We don't have any meeting that only includes the product owner and the scrum master. And C is wrong. discussion between the scrum master and the crossf functional team members. This is usually for the retrospective meetings even though the product owner could attend the retrospective meeting if they want to but for the retrospective we have this scrum master and the cross functional team. And for the sprint planning all this chrome team should be there. So a is the best option. Let's confirm. Yes. Excellent. And this chrome framework the sprint planning meeting should include all this chrome team. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a construction project in a foreign country where corruption is widely spread. After facing trouble obtaining the required construction permits from local authorities, a team member suggested giving a bribe to the local officials to get things going and execute the project without issues. What should the project manager do? If you are in the place of this project manager, are you going to give the bribe? Let's see the different options. A, refuse to give the bribe. B, give the smallest amount of money possible, which means that you are going to accept, but negotiate on the amount of the bribe. Is that good? No, of course. Don't do that. Negotiate a non-monetary bribe. At the end, bribe is a bribe. Whether it's a monetary or non-monetary, that's should not be done by the project manager. And finally ask the team member to give the bribe on their behalf. That's same if you give the team member or if you give it yourself it's the same behavior asking someone to do something that is against the ethics of project management is not right and the right option is to refuse to give a bribe whatever is the situation. Okay, you might say what can I do if I am in such a situation? I'm not going to give a bribe. I'm facing a trouble here. So what's the problem? It's out of your hand as a project manager. Escalate the issue to the organization and give them that you cannot move because of this and your organization should take care of this situation. As a project manager, follow the rules, follow the legal processes in order to get the construction permits. You cannot do that legally. Report to the organization. Easy peasy, right? Let's confirm. Yes, it doesn't need confirmation. Actually, the correct answer should be a it's too obvious. And you can refer to the PMI code of ethics. It's a few pages document that you can find easily on the internet. Just type PMI code of ethics and you can find that PDF. It includes all the things that the project manager should steer away from such as corruption, theft, embezzlement, a fraud, bribery, stuff like that. All right, let's move on to the next question. A project manager was assigned to a park redevelopment project which consists of cleaning and equipping the park for local families and residents. A project involves a really big number of stakeholders since it includes multiple phases and different types of tasks to execute. What should the project manager do? Okay, let's see the different options. A disregard low power stakeholders. Disregard is not good course of action. So when you find disregard, it's wrong. And move on to the next option. only engage here without continue reading. Only engage means that you are going to not engaging the other. So this is not good practice. So the right option usually involves engaging stakeholders and engagement could have different levels. But just engaging one category of stakeholders without engaging the rest is a wrong option. So that's not a good practice to only engage a category and just ignore the rest. It's very close to this one actually. Disregarding low power stakeholders means that you are engaging high power and disregarding low power. Don't do this. Just try to prioritize and do the engagement according to the levels and that engagement could be adjusted. There is low engagement, there is high engagement, medium engagement. you do that. Don't disregard and don't only engage the group of people. Okay, let's check C and D. Analyze all stakeholders. That's good. In order to prioritize engagement, that's excellent. So, you try to analyze them and prioritize engagement and define the level of engagement. That's also good. Okay. So, so far C is fine. Report the issue to the project sponsor. This is not good because communication is on you as a project manager. Don't delegate it. You need to take care of it. So C here is the right option. Let's confirm. Yes. Excellent. As a project manager, you cannot leave out or disregard any stakeholders and you need to identify all project stakeholders regardless of their number. then analyze each one of them in order to prioritize the engagement. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading an iterative project. The project owner calls for a meeting with the project team and other permanent stakeholders to review a demonstration of the produced deliverable. When should the project manager organize this meeting? So here we have a demonstration and we are working under an iterative project. So a demonstration comes at the end of iteration, right? It could not be at the beginning of the iteration. So this doesn't make sense at the end of every iteration. This is the right option at the end of the project. No, we are under iterative project. So we should have some demonstrations to review at the end of each iteration. at the start of the project is also ridiculous. So the right option should be B. Let's see. Yes, here the iterative review meetings takes place at the end of each iteration to allow the project team to obtain feedback from the product owner and concerned stakeholders on a regular basis. Let's move to the next question. A project manager is assigned to an accounting software development project. in its beta version. Some users reported that the software freezes one to three times a day. All right. Hopes that this freeze doesn't endure for many seconds or minutes otherwise it's a big big problem. Since the project manager needs more information to fix the problem, he asked the users to fill in a okay let's check check sheet cheat sheet checklist or survey whenever the issue occurs. Okay, check sheet is something like that. We have issues occurrence. We have days here. We have the type of issues here. And whenever the issue is encountered, there is sign here. We could have like encountered two or three times a day like in our case. So we have two here or three marks. Okay. So this is a check sheet and in our situation obviously we are in the check sheet situation since the users need to fill in a check sheet whenever the issue occurs. This cheat sheet is not used. Checklist also is not appropriate. Survey is also not the appropriate technique. And we can see here that the correct answer is a. We can read here, a checklist is used to verify whether a set of required steps has been performed or not. All right, let's move on to the next question. During the risk identification phase, the project manager and her team identified more than 100 risks, too many risks. The project manager believes that the quantitative evaluation of each of these risks will take a lot of time. Where is not all of these identified risks are important enough to justify such a measure. So we have these 100 risks and we need to do a more analysis which is a quantitative analysis for only the most important risks. Let's see what the project manager should do next. Identify risk triggers. Then perform a quantitative analysis of risks that have no triggers. Actually that's not the purpose of triggers to decide whether to do quantitative analysis or not. Triggers signs to help deciding whether the risk is going to take place or not. This is usually in the execution phase and we identify the triggers to help us knowing whether this risk is going to take place or not. So obviously A is not related to the situation we are having and not a correct option. B use qualitative risk analysis to qualify and prioritize risks for the quantitative risk analysis. Yes, usually we use qualitative risk analysis which is probability and impact analysis. And after doing this probability and impact analysis, we prioritize the risks that needs quantitative risk analysis. For instance, we can choose only the critical risks that have high probability and high impact. So this looks fine. Let's check why C and D are wrong. Conduct a qualitative assessment. That's fine. Of each risks probability, then perform a quantitative analysis of risks with a high probability. So here why it is wrong? Because here we are only taking the probability as a parameter for doing the prioritization. Where is the qualitative risk analysis should be done with probability and impact not just probability. D conduct a qualitative assessment of the potential impact of each risk. Then perform a quantitative analysis of risks with a high impact. Here same here we are only considering the impact. We are not taking into consideration the probability. Sometimes you have a risk with high impact but very very low probability. In such a case you could not prioritize this risk for a quantitative analysis. So that's why C and D is not better than B. For B quantitative should be probability and impact. But for C here we only focus on probability and D we only focus on the impact. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is B. Qualitative risk analysis is the process of assessing risks occurrence probability and impact. This method helps to focus efforts on only high probability risks by laying the foundation to perform a quantitative risk analysis. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading an agile project for the last 9 months. When should the project manager stop tailoring the process? Let's see the different options. When the product owner decides, when the project manager decides, when the crossf functional team members decides or the tailoring process should never be stopped. What do you think? Should we stop the tailoring process? And what does this mean? Actually, this means that we stop the retrospective meetings. And do you think that we should one day stop the retrospective meetings? Of course not. So the right answer should be D here. The tailoring process should never be stopped. Even though if the product owner or the project manager or the cross functional team give that suggestion that suggestion should not be taken into consideration. We should always learn from our mistakes. We should always learn and adapt our processes because there is always rooms for improvement. We should not stop improving. Okay, let's confirm. Yes, the project manager that truly understands agile knows that tailoring its processes is a continuous task. Let's move on to the next question. An agile project manager is leading a software project using the scrum framework. While the crossf functional team implements user stories during the sprint, what should the product owner do? Okay, let's check a here. Add more tasks for the team so they can deliver more value. That's funny actually because we know that during the sprint planning the product owner and the development team agree about the user stories to be shipped in that sprint. So during that sprint the product owner should not add more tasks. This is obviously wrong. Then B let the team do their work and respond to any questions they might have. Okay, that's seems very good actually. The product owner should not distract the team and they should be available for the team to answer their questions. Let's check C and D. Protect the team from interruptions and facilitate discussions. Actually, this is the role of the project manager or the scrum master since we are having a scrum framework and it's not the product owner role. So that's why C is not correct. D monitor this print progress and extend its duration. Now I'm going to stop reading from here. You cannot extend the duration of the sprint. This sprint it's a time boxed iteration. Once it reaches the end date, it ends and then you start a new sprint. You cannot extend its duration. All right, then D is wrong and the right answer is B. Excellent. The product owner should let the team do their work and answer any questions they might have during the sprint. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a three-year project that involves upgrading and improving an electrical engine for industrial use. Since the majority of project activities are hazardous, the project team will receive extensive safety training. The training will ensure the safety of workers and prevent delays caused by unsatisfactory work. The cost of the conducted safety training falls under. Okay, we have here the cost of regulations, the cost of quality, the cost of conformance and the cost of nonconformance. I think here we can eliminate two options right away. The cost of regulations, we don't have any regulations in this situation here. So it is not a cost of regulation and cost of non-conformance as well. We don't have any nonconformance in this situation that leads to doing such training. The training is a proactive measure made by the project manager and that will ensure the safety and prevent delays and stuff like that. So it's considered as a cost of quality but within the cost of quality we have two types. We have the cost of conformance but within the cost of quality we have two types. the cost of conformance and the cost of nonconformance. So if we choose between these two, this training is rather the cost of conformance because we are going to work on the skills of the workers in order to improve the quality. The cost of quality could be correct for this but it's not accurate because cost of conformance is part of cost of quality. So it is better to choose the accurate option among all the options we have. Let's confirm yes the correct answer is C. Training costs fall under the cost of conformance to quality. The described scenario does not mention that the training was conducted to comply with certain regulations. The cost of quality is too generic as an answer since it compromises both the cost of conformance and the cost of nonconformance. The cost of non-conformance involves the cost of internal and external failures costs which is not the case here. While working on a large project to develop a fingerprint voting system, a project manager notices that lately a senior developer in the project team missed two consecutive deadlines. What should the project manager do? Okay. A verify whether the developer is a shared resource with another project. All right. So maybe if the developer is a shared resource they might have enough time for your project and for this reason they miss deadlines. In this case probably you already know about the developer. So even though if they are shared resource it's not an excuse maybe the developer should manage their time efficiently. So I don't like this option too much. It's not a big no but maybe there is a better option. Let's check the other options. Give the developer a formal warning via email so he can work on improving his work quality. Here jumping to formal warnings and warnings here I don't like it too much as if like it's a yellow card next time it's a red card and they will be kicked out of the company. So I don't like this one. Even though using email here is not the best way when there is an issue. opt always for a face-toface direct communication, not using emails only for like formal things and it's too early for formal learning in this case. That's why I think B is the wrong option. Let's check C. Meet with the developer in person and offer support if needed. This is very good. Meeting with a developer and providing support means that the project manager is following a servant leadership style which is always recommended when it comes to project management. So I think C is the best option so far. Let's check D. Escalate the issue to the developers line manager and ask him to immediately address the issue. Escalation is not the right option either. It's too early for escalation and the duties of the project manager is to deal with issues like that with the team. So why escalating? For all these reasons, I think C is the best option. Let's confirm. Yes, the project manager needs to understand the reason for recurrently missing deadlines in order to provide appropriate support. All right, let's move on to the next question. Even though two user stories were estimated consecutively at two and three story points, their implementation took two days each. By how many story points do these two user stories contribute to the team velocity when calculated at the end of the iteration? We know that the velocity is the sum of all the estimations of user stories completed within a sprint or iteration. In this case since they completed two and they completed three so the sum is five story points the right answer should be D. And implementations here took 2 days it's fine I mean sometimes we estimate like two three or even five and during the implementation we find out that we spend less or more time than what we expected. That's totally fine. Okay let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is D. Since velocity in the described scenario is calculated based on story points, then two user stories should count for five story points. However, if the team velocity were based on actual days, the two user stories would represent four actual days in the team's total velocity. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a one-year agile project. After a couple of months, the sponsor wanted to learn about the big picture of the project progress. More specifically, the implemented versus the pending features. Which of the following tools should the project manager use? Select tool. We have a cumulative flow diagram. This is actually a high picture diagram that used for executives and sponsor to learn about the P picture. So A should be right option. Iteration burndown chart. This will show the completed and implemented features during the iteration. It will not show the big picture of the project progress only the iteration progress. That's why B should be dismissed. Feature chart. Yes, feature chart is a good chart that could indicate the big picture when it comes to features. C is a good option. Canban birds actually it depends whether you are using the scrum or canban framework or other frameworks here it says agile project so we don't know exactly what framework because if we are using scrum the canban board is reset on each sprint so we cannot see the big picture if we are using the canban approach then all features could be listed in the canban board but throughout the project the done maybe features will be very long list. Also, the to-do list maybe it's a very long list and it's not easy to see the big picture when it is a very long project using a canban bird. So, the best two options are A and C. Let's confirm. Yes, the commumulative flow diagram and the feature chart both provide a complete picture of the progress of a release or a project. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project manager works for an organization that uses exttrinsic motivators to improve team moral and productivity. What incentives should the project manager offer the team in order to comply with the company's policy? Select three. Let's find out the different incentives. Let's check the different options. But first I would like to remind you about the differences between exttrinsic motivators and intrinsic motivators. Here according to the Hersburg's theory of motivation, we have this motivators which are intrinsic such as the willing for achievements, the recognition, the responsibility, the needs for growth, doing meaningful work, having a better career, stuff like that. However, extrinsic hygiene factors includes job security, personal safety, good salary, work life balance, good working conditions, fair organization policies and stuff like that. The non-existence of these exttrinsic factors leads to demotivating the team members. However, the existing of this and transect motivators means to motivate the team members. Okay, let's check now the different options and see what each option relates to. A create an employee of the month award. This is considered as an extrinsic motivator. So this should be right according to our question. Offer a $10,000 bonus for the most performing team members. That's cool. Okay, this is extranig as well. Allow team members to work on tasks they enjoy. This is relates to meaningful work and that's an intrinsic motivator. So it's not an incentive that the company is doing since they are doing only exttrinsic motivators. D praise team members for their hard work. This is considered as an extrinsic. But keep in mind that praising team members is a good thing because it also increases the intrinsic motivation. Because when you praise people, their desire to do good work is increased and their internal interest, internal motivation will be increased. That's very great actually. All right. So, let's confirm the right answer. A, B, and D are correct answers. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a project that follows a hybrid approach. Even though the project manager made sure that all iterations have a balanced workload, he noticed that a particular team member was getting overwhelmed while other members seem to be doing fine. What should the project manager do? Okay, let's see the different options. Inform upper management. Okay, I can stop here. Informing upper management is not appropriately, so just skip to the second option. Personally meet with the stressed team member. Okay, this is good start. Let's continue. Personally meet with the stressed team member to discuss ways to better manage their time. This is actually very good. I like this option. It's most probably correct option. But let's confirm with the other two remaining options. Raise the issue with the team in the daily standup meeting. That's not the appropriate meeting to raise issue with the team member. personally meet this team member in separate meeting is the appropriate course of action. So that's why C is wrong. D track the stressed team members tasks in a separate backlog for additional analysis and reporting. Actually creating a separate backlog is not recommended course of action. We only have one backlog when it comes to agile. We only have one backlog usually and here for additional analysis and reporting it's not needed also because we already know that this team member is struggling or is overwhelmed compared to other colleagues. So that's why I think B is way much better than D. And let's confirm yes the right answer is B. One of the key qualities of effective managers is their ability to actively listen to those around them. In this situation, the project manager has to step into their leadership role and offer guidance to the team member who seems to be overwhelmed. Okay, let's move on to the next question. Before starting the project and after identifying all of the individuals and groups involved or affected by the project, the project manager took a step further by classifying stakeholders according to their level of power, interest and influence. This step is referred to as stakeholder analysis, identification, monitoring or engagement. Here we can see that the project manager is classifying stakeholders. So we are still at the beginning of the project. So we are not identifying them since stakeholders are identified and they are being classified. Monitoring is when you are executing the project and you observe what is the standing of the stakeholders towards the project. So this is also not correct engagement during the execution. Also we are trying to improve the engagement of stakeholders and communicate to them and involve them in the project. So all these are not correct and the correct option is analysis. The project manager is doing an analysis right now. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is A. Since the question states that the stakeholder were already identified and that the project didn't start yet, stakeholder analysis is the right answer. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a predictive project. After identifying a risk, the project manager decides to transfer it to another party. A buying insurance. We here have a transfer risk strategy. So buying an insurance is one of the ways or one of the most common ways of transferring strategy. So this is correct option. All the other options should be wrong. We can verify but believe me when you find here transfer risk most probably 90% of the cases it's by buying insurance. So be here accepting lower profit in case of cost overrun. No. Asking the sponsor to deal with the risk. This is considered as escalation. Eliminating the risk through beta testing. This is avoiding accepting your lower profit. This is considered as acceptance risk strategy. So the right answer is A. Let's check the right answer. Yes. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. Due to the financial crisis, an organization decides to pose all internal projects to and define a date. A project manager within this organization has a weekly meeting with a subcontractor who provides the majority of the project's physical resources. What type of communication should the project manager use to inform the subcontractor of the contract discontinuation decision? Let's check the different options. Informal written, formal written, informal verbal or formal verbal. I think we can eliminate two right away since here we are going to inform the subcontractor of a contract discontinuation. Here when we have contracts it's best to use the formal communication and we can eliminate A and C immediately. We have two options. We either we have formal written or formal verbal. Even though we are having a weekly meeting, verbal is not best when it comes to such a decision. So it's better to record the decision in a written way. So we have all the proofs and we follow all the procedures when it comes to contract and stuff like that. Let's check the correct answer. Yes, B is the correct answer. When dealing with complex issues such as updating a plan or dealing with legal matters, it would be best to document such discussions and decisions using formal written format. Okay, let's move on to the next question. During a workshop about the agile approach, the project manager stated that agile teams should be crossunctional and self-organizing, explaining that each member of the team should be crossunctional and selforganizing. Is that making sense? Actually, we talk about crossf functional team and we don't talk about crossf functional team member. Also for self-organized, it's about the team not about individuals. So that's why here each team is not correct. The agile team should have all the required skills to deliver the product on their own. Okay, that's looks fine. It's all the required skills means this crossf functional. Deliver the product on their own means that they are selforganized. So B should be good. But let's check C and D why they are wrong options. The agile team should have complimentary skill sets and be able to organize the backlog by themselves. Here it's not correct. By the way here we said the backlog and we stopped. We didn't define. Usually when we say the backlog without anything it means product backlog and in this case it's wrong because the product owner is the responsible for the product backlog that's why the option C is wrong. If this question is about sprint backlog then it magically becomes right because it's the responsibility of the development team to manage or organize the sprint backlog. So be careful when you see the backlog. Try to check the first word here. If there is nothing, it's product backlog. But if there is a product backlog or sprintter backlog, it's clear and they are both different. You can refer to the video related to the agile in the course and you will learn more about difference between these two effects. Okay. D. The agile team should self-organize to acquire the necessary skills to be crossunctional. That's funny statement. It doesn't make a sense. And the right option should be B. And yes, a cross functional team is a group of individuals who acquire different substantial skills skill sets that are enough to accomplish their common goal proficiently. All right, let's move on to the next question. Despite creating an agenda and time boxing the meetings, the project manager struggles to engage all attendees. What should the project manager do? A make meetings shorter to prevent boredom. Actually, making meetings shorter is already done here. The meetings are time boxed, which means that they have defined time for the meeting. So I think this is already done by the project manager and it's not the problem that the project manager is facing and it's not 100% related to the issue that is the project manager facing either. So A is wrong. B limit the interventions of the most talkative attendees to allow others to participates. Sometimes we have talkative attendees. They consume all the time themselves. They don't let anyone talk with them. It's possible to limit the interventions of those talkative attendees. So B would be right. But let's check C and D. Change to remote meetings to make everyone feel more comfortable. Here it's not the problem of having a remote meeting or in-person meetings. Actually engaging attendees is much more easier with in-person meetings. So changing to remote meetings will not resolve the issue. I think C could be eliminated. Let's check D. Encourage all attendees to participate and share their thoughts by asking for their opinions on the discussed matters. Okay, here the project manager try to engage these participants and ask for their opinions. I think if I compare B and D, I would prefer D more because this is more direct. It's trying to be direct with engaging this attendees and could resolve the issue more effectively. And it doesn't even require that you have talkative attendees. Even though you don't have talkative attendees, you can do this. So that's why I prefer D over B. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is D. As a facilitator, the project manager must ensure that all attendees take part in the meeting by encouraging them to share their ideas and opinions and engaging them in the discussed topics. Two agile teams are working on developing the same product. Team A is made of five members and uses two week sprints. Team B involves four members and uses three week sprints. Team A completed all sprint backlog items with a velocity of 50 story points. Team B on the other hand reached 70 story points without completing all of the sprints backlog. So we have a lot of details here. You need to be focusing when reading this kind of questions. Okay. So to resume you have two teams, one with five, the other with four members. One with two weeks, the other with three weeks. One completed 50 story points. The second completed 70 story points but without completing all the sprint backlog items. So probably this for instance could have 80 story points in the sprint backlog but they completed only 70 whereas team A have 50 story points in the sprint backlog which they completed all. All right let's see the question. Which team has better performance? team A since they completed all sprint backlog items. Actually, completing all sprint backlog items is a good thing. And if we have two teams, I would say that the team which is best is the team that fulfills their commitment. So I think A is a good option. But let's check B, C, and D. Team A taking into consideration their velocity, they can achieve 57 story points in a 3 weeks sprint, which is better than what team B achieved. Here I would like to say that when it comes to velocity, we cannot compare two teams according to their velocity because each team has their own velocity and it doesn't mean that one team is better than the other. So that's why B is wrong. Team B since they have a better velocity. We already said that velocity is not criteria to compare between teams. Team B since they achieved more story points with fewer team members. Same here. Achieving more story points also depends with how you are estimating as a team. Maybe for some teams five story points means a big user story. For others it's a small user story. So it's depending on each team. That's why B is also not accurate. And the right answer should be A. Let's confirm. Yes, the team that has better performance is the team that fulfills its sprint engagement by completing all of its backlog items. All right, let's move on to the next question. A product owner and team members have different interpretations of a particular user story. To resolve the disagreement, the project manager suggests the creation of personas. What's the most probable reason for creating personas to use it as a wireframe to help clarify project outcomes? Actually, personas doesn't clarify project outcomes. So, it's not part of the scope of the project. It's not part of the deliverables. That's why A is not making sense and it's a wrong option to engage stakeholders who don't know how much about the project. Engaging stakeholders is with the right communication, not with personas. That's why it's not an engagement tool, the persona. Let's move on to option C. to help the development team empathize with the users of the solution. That's exactly the purpose of personas and D to identify and describe real users of the solution. Personas is not about real users. They are fious personalities and that are used only to help team members empathize with the end users of the solution. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is C. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager attended a meeting to finalize a procurement that was still in the negotiation stage. However, the project manager noted that discussions tend to drift to various irrelevant topics with attendees occasionally going back to the meeting's main topic. What's this meeting missing? Select two. Let's check what this meeting is missing. Minutes. Actually the minutes are used after the end of the meeting to sum up the action plan of the meeting and what was discussed etc. So it's not the reason why the discussion drifts and that's why a is not correct. An agenda maybe the agenda is the right reason why the discussion drifts because attendees are not sure whether to discuss this topic first or second or third. So they are jumping from a topic to topic and an agenda could be the reason an objective. Okay, here if we focus on the scenario we find that the objective is clear to finalize a procurement that was in still in the negotiation stage. So I think the objective is not missing in this scenario. Also, since the attendees are going back to the main topic, so they probably know what's the main topic. That's why I'm going to dismiss an objective here. Let's check the a facilitator. Yes, that's probably the reason for discussions drift. The lack of facilitator who follow up on the agenda could be a reason for such messy meetings. Let's confirm. Yes, your correct answer are B and D. The meeting probably does not have either a clear agenda or a facilitator. All right, let's move on to the next question. A project manager created the following highlevel hierarchical list of human and physical resources of a project that consists in creating a bulk SMS platform for marketing campaigns. What does this visual illustration represents? Is it a resource calendar? This doesn't look like a calendar, right? So it's a wrong option right away. Organization breakdown structure. If it's an organization breakdown structure, we could see that here is the CEO, here is the department chiefs, etc. But it doesn't look like that. This is a wrong option. Resource breakdown structure. This is resource breakdown structure. We have the resource here referring to either human resources or equipments or materials. And we can see here this breakdown structure illustrates well the resource breakdown structure diagram. A racy chart. This is not a racy chart. Recy refers to the responsible, accountable, consulted and informed chart which is assigning the responsibilities of each of the team members or stakeholders of the project. This is clearly not a racy chart and the right option is C. Let's check here. Yes, C is the right answer. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. During project execution, the project team had an issue with an unreliable vendor. Since the incident had a high impact on the project scope, the project manager decided to terminate the vendor's contract and never deal with them again in the future. Where should the project manager record this issue? Lessons learned register, change log, risk register, or issue log. I think there are two options that we can eliminate easily. The change log there is no changes in this scenario and the risk register there is no risks. We have an issue and we have a lessons learned. So we have two things here. We have the issue and we have the lessons learned. And the issue we record it in the issue log and the lessons learned we record them in the lessons learned register. And the question is about recording the issue. So if we refer to the question then we are going to record the issue in the issue log. So the right answer should be D. Let's confirm yes. Excellent. The issue log is a project document where all information concerning faced issues is recorded and monitored. However, for option E, even though the described scenario involves lessons learned never to deal with the unreliable vendor in the future, the question only inquires about where to record the issue. Okay, so be careful. Sometimes from the question you can filter some options. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A PMP certified project manager has a wide knowledge of project management and over 20 years of experience as a designer in the automotive industry. Her last assignment consisted in managing a group of designers to develop a new design of a futuristic car model. Knowing that the team trusts her decisions, which of the following powers does the project manager possess? Is it referent, expert, formal or persuasive? Here in this scenario, we can eliminate easily some options. We can eliminate the persuasive. Since we don't have any indication that she has a very persuasive skills, we don't know whether she's good in persuading people or not. Also we don't know whether she has a reference power since reference power is about admiration about respecting people. Identify yourself with these kind of leaders and we don't have such kind of things here. We only know that she had wide experience and they trust her decision because she had a lot of experience. And since someone had a lot of experience and people trusts their decisions because of that then we are talking about an expert power rather than a formal power. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, B is the right answer. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager receives a document from the customer containing the new project's requirements. When going through the document, the project manager finds it difficult to understand certain requirements, outputs, and most importantly, the project's ultimate goal. What should the project manager do next? A ask the customer for clarification. Yes, you could ask the customer how these documents are put together, why you did that, why you think of that, etc. So, this could be a way of collecting information to remove ambiguities. A could be fine. Let's check B, C, and D. Reject the new project as it involves a lot of ambiguity. Rejecting it right away. I don't think this is a good next step for the project. Maybe ask the customer first. Get to know more about this project. Then you can reject if you think that this project is unfeasible for instance or if it involves a lot of risk, if your organization doesn't accept such projects etc. So I think B it's too early to decide. C start planning the first iteration. How you are going to start working without even knowing the goal of the project. So C is not making sense. Acquire a team to help analyze the project requirements. Are you going to acquire a team even without starting the project or without having any confirmation to run the project? You don't know about the project goal. you only have some documentations without understanding requirements etc. So it's too early to acquire a team either that's why I think the best thing that the project man should do is to ask the customer for clarification. Let's confirm. Yes, in case of ambiguity the project manager should first ask for clarification from the customer before making any further decisions. The project involves unclear requirements and objectives. It's not appropriate to start planning project work or acquire a team without first creating a clear vision of what the project consists of. Let's move on to the next question. A company must select one of the two projects that have the same budget but different returns and risk levels. Which tool or technique should be used in order to make the right decision? Is it to decision tree, tornado diagram, a swat analysis or sensitivity analysis? What do you think? Okay. The right answer should be decision tree. Why is that? Because if we have a look of the decision tree, we get this as an example. We usually in the decision tree, we try to make decision based on probabilities like that. And on return for instance, this is a return. and we multiply by the probability and try to come up with different options with how much we are going to earn or how much we are going to take risk etc. So if we are in a situation and we are trying to assess the returns and risk levels it's most probably it's most probably the decision tree diagram that is involved. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is A. And the decision tree analysis is used to support the identification and selection of the best course of action among several alternatives. Let's move on to the next question. During the sprint review, the product owner informs the Scrum team that the meeting is being recorded in order to send it to a key stakeholder. A day later, the stakeholder contacted the product owner to express their disappointment with the product, claiming that it is nothing like what they had in mind. That's too sad. Let's check what the project manager should do next. A facilitate a meeting between the product owner and the concerned stakeholder. Okay, since the stakeholder is not happy about the product and the product owner is the responsible for creating the vision of the product and managing the product backlog. Maybe there is non alignment between the stakeholder and the product owner. So having them discuss with each other is a good course of action. So I think this is making a lot of sense. Let's make this right and check the other options. meet the stakeholder to review the product backlog items. Here the project manager is not the one responsible for the product backlog items. So this is it should be wrong because this is the responsibility of the product owner. You should not take their responsibility. Right? Let's move on to the let's check see ask the development team to have more frequent backlog refinement sessions with the product owner. Maybe they have backlog refinement sessions with the product owner. Maybe the development team is having frequent backlog refinement sessions with the product owner but still the stakeholder is not happy because what this stakeholder is imagining about the product is different from what the product owner is thinking. So I don't think this is related to the issue at hand and it will not resolve it anyway. So C is wrong. Ask the development team to collaborate with the key stakeholder. Actually your role as a project manager in agile scrum is to protect your team not to let them collaborate with the key stakeholder. The only point of contact for the development team is the product owner. So let the product owner discuss with the key stakeholder and let them agree about the project requirements and protect your development team from being interrupted all the time. So that's why D is wrong and the best answer should be A. Let's confirm. Yes, since the product doesn't meet the expectation of the key stakeholder, then there is a no alignment between the product owner and the stakeholder. The product owner is responsible for gathering and prioritizing requirements and the feedback of the stakeholder indicates that the product owner didn't involve them enough in the process. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading an adaptive project using an online project management system that displays the realtime progress of the iterations and the overall project through different charts. However, a key stakeholder prefers to receive an email with the weekly status report instead. What should the project manager do? Sometimes we fall in such situations where we try to satisfy stakeholders with the best communication management that we think of. In this example here, the project management system that shows realtime progress, but the stakeholders aren't satisfied with what we are doing and they prefer sometimes all the style, sometimes old way of communications such as emails for instance or paper reports or stuff like that. Let's check what the project manager should do in such a case. A add a small recurring task of one story point in the product backlog to send the weekly report. Do you think that is the right course of action? Actually the product backlog like its name indicates it is related to the product. Sending an email or sending a report to the stakeholder is not related directly to the product. So it should not be added to the product backlog. That's why this is not making sense. B take this in charge in order to let the team focus on achieving deliverables. So this is is a work that the project manager should take in charge as a project manager. You need to protect your team and take of all the management work and B should be right in this case. Check if there is a way to automatically send the weekly report through the project management system. This is also a good option. If you try to win some time for you as a project manager, you can try to automate sending the report. So this is also a good option. D. Ignore the stakeholder request. I think useless to continue reading. Ignore here is not the best course of action. You should not ignore any request from stakeholders. Try to let them understand the constraints. Talk to them. try to engage them here. If you can just satisfy their request and send them the email or try to find a way to automate it, that's always better. Let's confirm the right options. Yes, B and C is the right answer. The project manager should remove impediments that slow down the team's progress towards achieving the iteration goal. This can be done by taking this task in charge whether by sending the status reports manually or by finding a way to automate it. Furthermore, the project manager can remind the key stakeholder that they have real time access to the project status. So try to educate them slowly slowly maybe in the future they will say it's fine now I can use the real time platform. If they don't get it, if they still want to get emails, you should continue sending emails. Upon the client's request, a project manager of an e-commerce website development project agreed to extend the scope while committing to the same delivery date. In order to achieve that, the project team must work 24/7. What should the project manager do? A, start a night shift for the colloccated team members. Here if we have for instance three members working on the project and they have this amount of scope okay and suddenly the scope becomes like that we have added the scope to double for instance and we are still working with three team members. Does letting someone from the three team members or two members from the three team members work a night shift resolve the issue? Of course not. That's why this is not going to resolve the issue and A should be wrong. B high virtual teams that work in different time zones and schedules. This is considered as a crashing technique. We will add more resources. Instead of having three people, we are going to have six people working on the project. Then instead of doing only this scope, the six people, three of them will still continue working on the initial scope and three new others will work on this new scope. And these new three, they could be virtual teams since this project allows for virtual work. Okay, so B is making sense. But let's check the other two options. Fast tracking couldn't resolve such an issue because we are having a lot of scope and our team cannot do this scope unless they work 24/7. So fast tracking is not going to resolve the issue. Use the resource leveling technique. This technique is used in the planning phase when we are doing a predictive planning using the network diagram and in this case we are in the execution phase and resource leveling is not going to resolve the issue at hand. That's why C and D are not correct answers. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the correct answer is B. The project manager can crush the project by hiring virtual teams that work in different time zones and on different days of the week. Okay, let's move on to the next question. Place the following project budget components in the right position in the figure below. We have project budget, cost baseline, contingency reserve and management reserve. Here we have the total amount. We can say that this extra amount should be the management reserve since the project manager doesn't have the right to manage this management reserve. Only the management of the organization can mobilize this amount. So this is should be a and b here is the project budget. This is B the project budget that the project manager can use. This is B. And now we have this CND. The project budget is composed of two things. The cost baseline and the contingency reserve. So the cost baseline should be here D and the contingency reserve should be C. You might be asking why we don't switch between C and D. And the answer is because D here is big amount. That's why the cost baseline should be higher than the contingency reserve. I don't imagine having a contingency reserve more than the cost baseline. Maybe in real life happens if you know some cases you can share but as far as I know most of the cases the cost baseline should be bigger than the contingency user. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a project involving three stakeholders with high authority. By analyzing each of these stakeholders, the project manager identifies stakeholder A as the one who has the most interest in the project. What strategy should the project manager use for managing stakeholder A? Okay, here we have the stakeholder A. He has high priority and he also has the most interest in the project. So he has high priority and high interest. And here the project manager should either manage them closely or keep satisfied, keep informed or monitor the stakeholder. This reminds us with the power interest grid. If we have a quick look about this grid, we have these stakeholders with low interest, low power monitor, low power, high interest, keep informed, high power, low interest, keep satisfied and high power, high interest like in our case manage closely. The project manager must put forth the greatest effort to satisfy them and be aware that there are factors that can cause them to change quadrants rapidly. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is a. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. An agile project manager noted that several stakeholders have lost interest in the project. They rarely provide inputs, give feedback, or attend meetings. That's the problem. If you are managing such a project, maybe you need to act quickly and try to resolve the issue. And let's see what the project manager should do in this case. A send a reminder before each meeting here as if you are trying to resolve the attend meetings issue. But this is not the only issue the project manager is having. The project manager is having stakeholders that do not provide inputs and do not give feedback. So A is not the root cause of this issue I think. Let's uh check B. Inform stakeholders that they can provide their feedback anonymously. Same here. I don't see in this scenario any indication that let the stakeholders feel more comfortable if they provide feedback anonymously. That's why I think B is not the right option. See value and show appreciation of everyone's idea. This is very good actually since they don't provide inputs and they don't give feedback maybe their voice is not heard that's why they are losing interest in the project so C is good you can engage stakeholders by listening to them and D demonstrate the working increments this is looks good as well because if you demonstrate the work increments their interest will be higher and they can provide input and give feedback so among these four options C and D are the best options. Let's confirm. Yes, C and D are the correct answers. Most probably stakeholders are losing interest in the project because their input or feedback is being disregarded or they are not seeing any tangible progress. Okay, let's move on to the next question. An agile coach was invited to assist an organization in its transition to the scrum framework. After examining the current situation, the agile coach finds out that the crossf functional team lacks a single point of contract to refer to in case they have any questions about the product. Which of the following roles is missing in this situation? Scrum master, sponsor, product owner or project manager? Okay, we know that in the scrum framework there are three roles. There are the scrum master, the product owner and the development team which is the project team. So we can eliminate two roles immediately here which are the sponsor and the project manager. And since the team is lacking a single point of contact here the product owner is playing this role. The product owner is the representative of the customer and they are talking to the development team. The cross functional team if they are needing any question or any clarification. Here we can see the different roles of the scrum framework. You can also read the main responsibilities of each role and we can check the right answer. The right answer is C. The product owner known as the voice of the customer is the one in charge of ensuring that the cross functional team creates value. The product owner ensures that the product specifications are clearly communicated to the team through the definition of acceptance criteria and ensuring that those criteria are met and satisfied. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is managing a project using a hybrid approach. After one week of the first iteration, the customer informs the project manager that they were dissatisfied with the deliverables. What should the project manager do next? Ask the customer to submit a change request so that their dissatisfaction can be addressed. Okay, here maybe the dissatisfaction is not going to change the baseline of the project. So right away asking to submit a change request without knowing the reason for dissatisfaction is maybe not what the project manager should do next. So that's why this is not the best option so far. Let's check the other options. Use soft skills to convince the customer that the deliverables conform to the project specifications. Here using soft skills to convince the customer. It's fine to use soft skills, but here you need to be pragmatic and convincing them that deliverables are meeting specifications is not going to resolve the issue. understand why they are not satisfied and maybe they are having the right for not being satisfied. So in this case it's useless to use soft skills to convince them. It's better to resolve the issue rather than just convincing them of the deliverables. So let's check the other options. See, investigate the cause of dissatisfaction and verify the deliverables. I like this option very much because you are investigating the cause of dissatisfaction and also verifying the deliverables. So you understand that this dissatisfaction is it in place or not. So this is what the project manager should do next and this is should be the right answer even without complete reading. So the right answer should be C. Let's check implement adjustment and improvements in the next iteration. So once you check C, you can do either A, B or D. You can implement adjustments. You can ask for change request. This is a hybrid approach. So whatever is appropriate in this case should be done either A or D. And in case the deliverables are fine and the stakeholder is simply not understanding how to deal with the product or how to use the deliverables, maybe you need to use your soft skills to convince them that the deliverables are all good and conforming to the specification. So let's confirm the right answer. Yes, it's C. And the project manager should listen to the customer first. Take note of the reasons behind their dissatisfaction. Verify deliverables. Once this is done, the project manager will be equipped with all the needed information to make the best decision. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. The project team includes the following members. Member A is very excited about the project. Member B sometimes exceeds expectations. Member C often spends additional time working on the project. Member D consistently achieves the project requirements. Who is the most valuable resource to the project? Member A, B, C or D. Okay, let's check each member. Being excited about the project is not going to be sufficient because the team member could be not productive. For instance, that's why excited is good for the team member. We want all team members to be excited, but maybe it's not sufficient and is not that valuable compared to other team members. Let's check B. Sometimes exceeds expectations and sometimes not. That's why here sometimes means that this team member is not consistent. That's why I'm going to dismiss B here. C often spends additional time working on the project. Here spending more time working on the project doesn't mean that the team member is delivering as per the required quality or as efficient as the other team members. Productivity is not usually measured with time. That's why here C is not the best answer and D consistently achieves the project requirements. I think among all the options I like a D the most because here it shows the consistency and it shows that the team member is achieving project requirements. Spending more time doesn't guarantee achieving requirements. Sometimes exceeding sometimes not also isn't that good team member A who is excited about the project doesn't mean that they achieve the project requirements. So I think D is the best option among all the options. That's confirmed. Yes, the team member D is the best project resource since they regularly meet project requirements. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. At the end of the iteration, a team member informs the project manager that she wasn't able to finish one of her assigned tasks due to an issue with her laptop. What should the project manager do in order to prevent such a situation from occurring in the future? A discuss the issue during the demonstration session. B address the issue during the following iteration planning meeting. C handle the issue during the next daily stand-up meeting and During the retrospective meeting. So this is in the question to prevent such a situation from the future. So we have here a lessons learned here. So in which meeting we have lessons learned? It should be in the retrospective meeting. So the right answer should be D here. Let's confirm. Yes, an agile retrospective meetings takes place at the end of each iteration during which the team discusses what happened during the iteration and determines improvements areas for future iterations. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager was assigned to organize a national event. The event project has been planned and approved for execution. Three months separate the project manager from the peak event during which they will follow the iterative approach with two week long iterations. So I think here during this 3 months the preparations will be done for the big event here. So and every two weeks there are iterations there maybe retrospectives after the two weeks there are planning for the next two weeks etc until we reach the event. Before starting any work the project manager holds a meeting with the sponsor project team stakeholders and key contractors. What kind of meeting did the project manager hold? Usually when we have a meeting that gathers sponsor and key stakeholders and contractors etc. then this is called a kickoff meeting because this meeting will kick off the execution of the project. So here the project manager is practically having a kickoff meeting with these participants. Let's confirm. Excellent. A project kickoff meeting is considered the formal announcement of the project approval for execution. Let's move on to the next question. Match the following communication methods with their corresponding advantages in the table below. A synchronous virtual written or face toface. Let's check the different advantages. Increase flexibility and reduces pressure. I think this could be asynchronous also could be virtual. I don't think it's written also I don't think flexibility is related to face toface. So either asynchronous or visual I think we could check the other advantages so we can be more sure about what to put as a B here builds connections and leads to more engagement. This is obvious actually the face-to-face communication is the one that builds connections and leads to more engagement. C decreases ambiguity and ensures commitment. Usually the written communication style is the one that reduces ambiguity and ensures commitment. And D saves costs and limits interruptions. So here since we have saving costs, it's usually related to virtual meetings because we don't have to move to a physical area and have a meeting. That's why D here should be virtual and then consequently A should be a synchronous which is increasing a flexibility and reduces pressure. A project manager is in charge of a new bridge construction project. The project manager were informed by one of the subject matter experts that next July all of the bridge construction work will need to stop. Taking into consideration the past history of river flooding due to hurricane season, the project manager agrees with the expert and arrange to stop the work during that month. This decision is considered as acceptance, transfer, mitigation or avoidance. Here we can find that the project manager stops the work. This means that the project manager did not accept the risk and did not transfer the risk to an insurance company for instance also did not mitigate the risk because they did not take other measures to reduce the amount of loss for instance they stopped the construction and this means that they are trying to avoid the risk. Let's uh confirm the right answer. Yes, the correct answer is D. The project manager's decision to stop construction work during July means that they are trying to avoid the risk rather than accept it. The project manager made the safe decision to stop all construction during hurricane season. So that's good. Let's move on to the next question. 3 months into project execution, the sponsor gets into a financial crisis and asks the project manager to immediately end the project. What should the project manager do here? The sponsor asks for a project termination. Let's see the different alternatives. A try to persuade the client to complete the project. Here the client which is the sponsor, same thing gets into a financial crisis. So they don't have financial means to complete the project. How you going to convince them or pers them to carry on the project? So this is making no sense in my opinion. I'm going to mark this as not correct. Let's check option B. Talk to the management about the situation. Okay. So here since we are having a contract closure, maybe the management should be involved. But let's check the other alternatives and see if there is other good alternative. See start the close procurement process. So here you are going to close procurement process. It's fine if you are going to close the project you close the procurement but not just that you need to close all processes related to project closure and let's check D start the close project process so this C is a part of D so if I'm going to choose between C and D absolutely I will choose D because D is more comprehensive you are going to close the project process which means that you are going to close procurements, you are going to release resources, you are going to do lessons learned, you are going to document all things related to the project etc. So here let's compare B and D. What should the project manager do next? I think start the close process is more comprehensive because within the close process the project manager will inform the management and will collaboratively with the management close the related contracts. So I think this is more comprehensive and makes a lot of sense and B and C could be part of closing the project process. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, when the project is closed or terminated for any reason, the project manager should start the close process. Okay, let's move on to the next question. While examining their project progress, a project manager finds out that the scheduled variance is $0. Which of the following statements is true about this project? So here we have the schedule variance. You need to learn the formula of the schedule variance which is the earned value minus the planned value. Okay. Based on this formula, we will check the different options and find out which is the best option. The project's CPI equals 1. Here the CPI is cost performance index whereas here we have a schedule variance. So if this is a schedule performance index, then this will be correct. But since it's a cost performance index and in our situation it's a schedule, then this is wrong. The project's earned value equals its planned value. We see here the formula earned value minus planned value. Since it is zero, then they should be equal. That's why this option should be correct. Let's check the other options. The project's cost variance is 02. We don't have any information about the cost variance. So, we cannot confirm this. This should be wrong. The project's estimate at completion equals its budget at completion. But we don't have enough data to confirm this either. So the right answer should be B in this case. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, schedule variance measures whether your project is on track by calculating its actual progress against expected progress. And this is the formula. And since it is zero, that means that the earned value equals the planned value. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a project using a hybrid approach. Shortly after acquiring the resources, the project manager discovers that the team members are politically very engaged. Almost all of their meetings and with a political dispute between team members. The project manager has decided to put an end to this before it deteriorates team members relationships by prohibiting any political discussions. Where should the project manager note this rule? A team charter, B project charter, C resource charter and D resource management plan. We can eliminate something which is odd to me which is resource charter. I have never seen that. So most probably this is a madeup term and we left with these three. The project charter usually it's related to the project objectives, key stakeholders, project budget and stuff like that. We don't have such roles related to teams in the project charter. So we can eliminate easily. We left with team charter and resource management plan. The resource management plan is used to manage resources for the project. It is less likely to include rules and guidelines for the team. That's why D is not the best option and the right answer should be A. Let's confirm. Yes, the team charter is the right document to include rules and guidelines on how the team members should interact with each other. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A product owner creates a release plan based on an estimated team velocity of 50 story points. However, in the first two sprints, the team achieved 37 and then 35 story points. What should the project manager do here? According to the empirical measurements we can see that there is let's say considerable difference between these real achievements and this is the expected achievements. We can here see that the average is 36 which is the release plan was established based on 50. Let's check the different options. What should the project manager do? inform the product owner that based on available empirical data the release plan could not be achieved. This is making a lot of sense. You inform the product owner, hey, you know what? It's impossible to achieve the release plan because we are having this average while we are estimated based on this. So, this is making a lot of sense and this is a big yes. Let's check B. use their leadership skills to motivate their team to reach the estimated velocity. Here the difference is not very close to motivate team to reach that estimated velocity. It's not easy to motivate them to keep that 50 especially that they started with this 37 and 35. So I think using leadership skills is not going to resolve the problem. We should be realistic about the capacity of the team and try to adapt accordingly and not trying to push the team to do work that is beyond their capacity. Okay, so B should be wrong. Let's check C. Extend the duration of the sprint until completing 50 story points. Here we know that extending the duration of the sprint is not possible. The definition of a sprint is a time boxed duration. When the sprint is over, it's over. We don't extend it for any reasons. That's why C is not correct. Let's check D. Study with the product owner the possibility of adding more resources to the team. This is making sense actually because we are able to finish 37 and 35 with our team. Maybe if we increase the team with let's say two other members maybe we can reach 50 story points and this decision should be validated by the product owner because the product owner is the representative of the business and they can validate decisions that have financial impacts. So D should be right and the right options should be A and D. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, A and D are the right answers. Scrum uses empirical data to measure work progress. Therefore, the project manager should let the product owner know that based on current performance, the release plan is not feasible. The product owner can update the release plan or study with the project manager the possibility of adding more resources to the team. Okay, perfect. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a team of engineers to perform a 2-year project. After a few months, the project manager notices that the team is becoming less interested in the project. What can the project manager do to maintain motivation? Let's see the different options and try to select the best option. Offer a bonus at the end of the project. Okay, here we have a 2-year project. So, offering a bonus at the end of the project maybe is not going to motivate them throughout the project. So I think this is not the best option. Let's check the different other options. Offer an immediate salary raise. Okay. Imagine here we have the 2 years project where we started. This is the first year and this is a few months into execution. If you offer a raise here, does it going to impact the whole duration of the two years? Maybe their motivation started here and then it drops. Here you provide them a rise. Their motivation will increase and here it will drop. So giving a salary raise is not going to solve the issue on the long run. Maybe it will solve the issue on the short term but on the long term it's not going to maintain motivation. So that's why I think B is not the best option either. C align work assignments with the team members personal ambitions. This is very good actually because if the team members feel that their work assignments are relevant to their ambitions, they will keep motivated and their interest in the project will be maintained. So I think C is very good. Let's check D and compare with C. Align the project with the organization's goals. This is good for the organization but for team members maybe they will not care a lot. Their motivation will not be impacted by having a project aligned to the organization's goal. So I think D is not very relevant to the situation on hand and C is the best option. Let's confirm yes the project manager should understand the team members ambitions and create a link between the project's activities and goals and their personal objectives. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. To build a web application, a project manager referred to a freelancing platform to hire a remote team composed of a designer, a front-end developer, and a backend developer. One week after becoming acquainted with each other, the conflicts dramatically intensified between the two developers to the point that the project manager decided to terminate their contract and they have been both replaced. Okay. So here the question what is the current development stage of the team? We have a situation where the project manager acquired the team and the team gets into a conflict and then the project manager decided to terminate their contracts and recruited another two developers. Okay we are here in a stage of jouring norming storming or forming since both replaced. So we are going back to forming the team again. So I think the current development stage should be forming. Let's get a reminder about the Turkman ladder stage. We are having at the beginning forming, storming, norming, performing and adjouring. And we can see that the team efficiency at the beginning they get to know each other. Then they moved to storming. And here the project manager terminated the contract of two developers and recruited two other developers. So they are back to forming. That's why the correct answer should be D. In this case, let's confirm yes. When the team was in the storming stage, there were conflicts between the two developers. However, since they have been both replaced, the team is now back to the forming stage. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is managing a construction project. Following an inspection, the customer rejected some of the deliverables due to nonconformance to the acceptance criteria. What should the project manager do next? Assess the impact on project constraints. Okay, so here this is possible. Let's check the other options. Document the reasons for nonacceptance. Okay, that's also possible. But here, what should the project manager do next? Maybe we need to order the different options. Let's continue reading. Issue a change request. That's possible. Maybe we need to order it as well. Use their soft skills to convince inspectors to accept the deliverables. So here again, using soft skills to convince inspectors to accept the deliverables is not ethical. That's why this should be eliminated right away. You should not influence inspector's decision. We left with A, B and C. Let's order them. I think the first thing the project manager should do is documenting the reasons for non-accepting. Then after documenting there will be assessment of the impact. This is should be two and then after assessing the impact I think we can go either for change request or without going to change request fix things if there is no impact on the baseline. So this would be three. And what should the project manager do next? The right answer should be B. The project manager should document the reasons for non-conformance. Let's confirm. Yes, the project manager should document the reasons for nonconformance first. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A project team developed a detailed plan to update the operating system of all of the company's computers. Later on, the project team discovers that not every computer supports the new version of the operating system. Which of the following statements best describes this scenario? All right, for the IT guys, this happens a lot. You should figure this out. Actually, you should get this right. Okay, let's check the different options. The project team made a wrong assumption or the project team didn't develop an appropriate project plan. the project team didn't establish an adequate risk response. I think here the project team developed a detailed plan then they discovered that not every computer supports the new version which means that this is an issue not a risk that's why we cannot say that they didn't adequately prepare risk responses. So maybe they have identified many risks and they well prepare their responses but this risk they did not identify. So that's why C is not a good option. The project team didn't consider the new version of the operating system as a constraint. Actually the new version of the operating system is the deliverable. So it's not logical to consider it as a constraint. It's a deliverable. That's why D is not making a lot of sense. We are left with A and B. Actually we can say that the project team considered that all computers are compatible with the new version. They could assume that and later on they could find out that they have wrong assumptions. And in this case the team didn't develop an appropriate project plan. Here in the scenario we said that they developed a detailed plan. So most probably this is wrong because they already developed a detailed plan and since they developed a detailed plan they should have an assumption log and within the assumption log they assumed that all computers support the new version. So most probably A is the right answer. I prefer A over B. Let's confirm yes the right answer is A. The project team made the assumption that all of the company's computer are compatible with the new operating system. Consequently, they planned the project based on this belief, but later on they found out that their assumption is untrue. Okay, excellent. Let's move on to the next question. The PMO is in the process of transitioning to an agile work approach. The team has shown high resistance to the changes since they are inaccustomate to adaptive approaches. What can the PMO leaders do to encourage adoption? Let's check the different options. Forge ahead and provide point in time training on the new methods. I I don't like here point in time training. If there is an issue, we provide a training. This is not ideal when it comes to continuous development. as a PMO they should continually provide the trainings to the team members and the project managers so that's why I think this is not a good option B train project managers on the adaptive approaches to help convince the team training the project managers is good help convincing the team that that's fine B is okay but let's check the different other options stick to the predictive approach to avoid any conflicts here sticking to the predictive approach is not going to help the project since the PMO is transitioning to agile. Maybe there is a reason for that and most probably they see value in transitioning to agile. So that's why going back and taking a step further is not a good option. Let's check D. Use a hybrid method that combines both adaptive and the predictive practices. I think D is a very good answer. If I compare D with B, I would choose D because hybrid methods are usually used when there is a transitioning to agile to help the project managers and the team be familiar with the agile approach. So I think D is the right answer and B here will be rejected maybe because the training is only for project managers. If this option includes training to project managers and also the project team, maybe it will be more convincing and it will be difficult actually to choose between the two. But here since the training is only for project managers, I can safely say that D is way much better. Let's confirm. Yes, the right answer is D. Transitioning a team to agile could be difficult and confusing when they are not accustomed to or familiar with this approach. One of the most effective transition methods is the adoption of a hybrid approach that combines both predictive and adaptive methods as a means of introducing agile to the team. A project manager is assigned to lead a big project with a key person requiring outsourcing to a service provider. To reduce risk, the project manager wants to ensure that the selected provider is well suited to the project and quality requirements before granting the whole project. What should the project manager do? A hire an auditor to continually check the quality of the provider's work. Okay, so here we have the issue that the project manager doesn't like to take all the risk. They want to ensure that the selected provider is good before granting the whole project. So here a hiring an auditor a is not relevant to the situation. Let's check the other options. Make the contract flexible in order to be able to replace the provider easily if quality is not met here. Making the contract flexible is good but it is not responding to the project manager willing to verify the uh provider quality. So this is not also good. Let's check the other options. Carefully choose the selection criteria. Even though you carefully choose the selection criteria, you cannot also try the provider before granting the whole contract. So this is also not relevant to the situation. D ask the service provider to do a trial engagement. This is exactly what the project manager should do. Let's confirm the correct answer. Yes, the project manager should engage several sellers for initial bad work before making the full commitment to one seller. This allows the buyer to evaluate potential partners. Here the buyer is the project manager. Option A, B, and C. These options could help select the best provider and manage their work and contractual relationships. For example, this is the flexible contract. Option B is helping with managing the contract and make it easy to do the work but they are not responding to the scenario which is directly related to the concept of doing a trial. All right, let's move on to the next question. A project manager opts for planning poker to estimate user stories. After going through the details of the first user story, the project manager asks team members to choose a card to represent their estimations of ideal number of days required to complete the user stories and then to reveal their cards. The estimates were vastly disperate. So the project manager instantly asked team members to reestimate the user story in an attempt to coverage their estimations. Here what did the project manager do wrong? Let's check the different options. A the team used ideal days to estimate the user stories. Ideal days could be used for user story. That's fine. We know that user stories we could use the story points. Some other teams use ideal days. Why ideal? Ideal means that time needed to work on the user story. It doesn't include any operational work or any kind of work that is not related to the user story. So that's why here ideal days a the ideal days is fine. So this is not a wrong thing for the project manager which means that this is not the right option. B. The team reestimated the user story immediately after revealing their cards. We see here that the project manager instantly asked team members to reestimate the user story. There is no discussions after the first round of estimations. That's maybe something wrong that the project manager did. So this could be a right option. Let's confirm whether C and D are also good or bad options. Cuts shouldn't be revealed. So that's ridiculous. Cars should be revealed to do discussion and find what is the estimate of the user story. So C is not making any sense. D the project manager shouldn't waste time with multiple rounds of estimates. here as if the project manager should only be based on one round of estimations which is against the concept of poker planning which is considered as a white band deli technique in which there is a first round the discussions then if there is no conversions then we're going to have a second round third round etc. So D is not aligned with the poker planning concept and the right answer should be B in our case. Let's confirm yes the correct answer is B. The team members missed out the benefit of discussing the reasons behind their estimations when they immediately moved on to reestimation. Okay. So let's move on to the next question. A project manager discovers a serious threat to the project. One of the project contractors might declare bankruptcy. If that happens, the project will be delayed for another two months. What should the project manager do to mitigate the risk? Here to mitigate the risk. This is a key word. Usually the questions with the PMP comes like what should the project manager do? In some other cases, you find a second part of this question to do something here to mitigate the risk. In some other cases you find to avoid the risk or to ensure stakeholder engagement or whatever is. So try to carefully read this part because it could indicate the right option because in the different options here I am pretty much sure that we could find some other risks where risk response is not mitigation. It could be transfer or acceptance or whatever and the right answer should be mitigate. So take note of this. If you find a question like this, try to pay more attention to this part. Let's check a review the contract to check the consequences of any contract breach. Is this mitigation? No, we don't see any mitigation here. Just collecting some data. It doesn't inform whether the project manager is taking any action. So that's why A is not responding to the question about mitigating the risk. Let's check the immediately stop working with the contractor. This is immediately stopping working means that the project manager would like to avoid the risk. But here even though the project manager immediately stops working with the contractor, I don't see that the project manager is having an alternative. So avoiding the risk without having an alternative is another secondary risk. So B is not going to help the project manager in any way. C. Contact an insurance company to secure coverage for potential losses. Here insurance company. What does it mean? Transfer. Excellent. Whenever you see the insurance company, it's related to the transfer strategy for risk which is not mitigating the risk. That's why C is not correct either. D. Contact other contractors who can supply the necessary materials. Here the project manager is going to take action. Going to contact other contractors. Maybe check if they have the materials or not. Try to negotiate with them the price. Try to win sometime. If the bankruptcy is real, then the project manager will be ready to replace the contractor right away. So D is making more sense and it's considered as a mitigation strategy. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is D. The project manager contacted different vendors in order to have other alternatives ready in case the risk occurs. By doing this, the possibility of the project's delay is reduced, which is the equivalence of having a risk mitigation strategy. All right, let's move on to the next question. A company has been awarded a contract in one of the Scandinavian countries. Before moving along with the team to the project site, which proactive measure should the project manager take? Let's check the different options and stakeholder management. Let's check the different options. Educate the project team about the country's lows. Here countries lows maybe that's not very relevant to the project team since they are going to work on the project. So having idea about country's laws is too extreme. I don't think this is making a lot of sense. But let's check the other options. Teach the project team the country's commons long terms. That's funny actually. But that's not very relevant as well. Let's check see raise the project team's awareness of the cultural differences. This is very good actually because when moving to work in another country there is a difference in culture that you need to learn and based on that you will do the planning for communication and stakeholder management. So that's a good option so far. Let's check D develop a communication management plan. So here uh before moving to the project site. So I think if I order CND I would say that first the project manager should raise the team's awareness on the cultural differences and then after having this awareness you can develop the communication management plan and the stakeholder management plan. So that's why I think C is the best option among all the options we have. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is C. Understanding cultural differences is the first step toward effective communication which entails reducing misunderstandings and enhancing communication skills. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A company provides an open space as a way of fostering team collaboration. However, while an agile software project, a senior developer approached the project manager to request a separate office where she can better focus on her work since she was enable to carry out some critical tasks in the common team area. What should the project manager do? Okay, here the team member or the senior team member is uh asking separate office to focus better on her work since she is going to work on critical tasks in the common area. So let's see the different options. A convince the senior developer of the advantages of working in the same space as her colleagues. Here the team member comes with a problem and the solution is feasible. So why trying to convince the team member of working in the same space especially that they are having reason for having a separate space because they want to focus on their work. So that's why I think A is not a good option in my opinion. Let's check B. Move the senior developer to a separate cubicle. Here the project manager will give a separate cubicle to the team member. But in this case, it doesn't show if the developer is going to be on that cubicle forever or just temporary. That's why I am uh suspicious about this option. Let's check the other options. Allow the senior developer to work in a separate area until her complex tasks are resolved. This is actually a best course of action especially that she is working on agile software and we know that there is a concept in agile that is called caves and common space which means that usually people work on the common area and if there is a team member willing to focus on something they move to a separate office which is caves and then once they finish they go back to the common area. So this is very good option that illustrates this concept. Let's check D. Ask the whole team not to make noise as it might disturb others. That's not going to resolve the issue because the team when they are working in an open space they might discuss to each others otherwise there is no sense in making an open space. That's why it's not feasible to always and all the time ask team members not to make noise. Let's check the correct answer. Yes, the correct answer is C. Companies that go for a caves and common office design allow their agile team members to temporary work in quite separate areas if they are unable to concentrate in the common open area. However, once they have finished the work at hand, they should return to the common team space. Okay, let's move on to the next question. An organization has recently converted to agile. After a few months, the project manager's supervisors complained that team A was performing poorly because it always had lower velocity than team B. What should the project manager do? Okay, here we have comparison between the velocity of two team members. We have seen before that we should not compare velocity when it comes to different teams. Let's check the different options. move some of the team B's best performance to team A. That doesn't make sense because we said that we should not compare velocity of the two teams. Set up a reward program to motivate team A here as if team A is not performing good. That's not correct as well. And C, encourage team A to increase their velocity in the upcoming sprints. This is not making sense as well. and D inform the supervisors that they can't compare the performance of different teams based on their velocity. That's exactly what the project manager should do. Let's uh confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is D. Velocity cannot be used to compare the performance of different teams. Let's move on to the next question. During the sprint retrospective meeting, the project team suggested improving communication and collaboration by using fishbowl windows and remote pairing. We know that these two techniques are used for remote teams in order to improve collaboration between team members. Despite the project manager's concern that this might negatively impact the team's productivity, the project manager agrees to implement both tools in order to promote self-organization within the team. What should the project manager do next? Let's check the different options. A at the end of the following sprint, the project manager and the project team should evaluate the impact of the new practices. That's fine. When we implement a new practice at the end of the next sprint and the retrospective more precisely we check whether these new practices are contributing to uh the success of the project or not. So evaluation is good and this is a good option so far. Let's check B. The project manager should frequently join the remote conferencing rooms to ensure that the project team is actually working and not wasting time chithatting. here the project manager as if the project manager is not trusting the team and tries to control them all the time. That's why this is not a good option. See the project manager should measure the team's velocity during the following sprint and in case of any decrease the project manager should discontinue the use of the new practices. Okay, here measuring velocity is good. That's fine. There is no problem with it. However, discontinue the use of the new practices by the project manager is not good. As if the project manager is authoritarian and that's not good when it comes to agile. Even in predictive, the project manager should not be authoritarian in most of the cases. Let's check D. The project manager should ask for the product owner's approval to use these two practices. We know that the product owner owns the product backlog and it doesn't intervene when it comes to agile processes. That's why practices and processes isn't among the product owner's uh responsibilities and D is wrong. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is A. Following the new practices implementation, the project manager and the team need to verify any performance improvements or deteriorations during the next sprint respective so the team can further adjust and reflect on the processes. Let's move to the next question. A project manager is managing a project for a startup that needs to quickly deliver a minimum viable product MVP to capture an opportunity in the market. What should the project manager do? Okay, here the purpose of doing an MVP is to capture an opportunity in the market. We see here uh quickly deliver. Let's check the different options. Deliver a perfect product to ensure end users satisfaction here. Perfect product means that the project will follow either predictive approach or iterative approach. So the purpose here is to focus on quality to focus on correctness. That's why A is not going to respond to the need for quickly deliver. Here if we could have some review about the different approaches and the goal of each approach we can find that the iterative approach the goal is correctness of solution. I get this table from the agile practice guide and you can see here that the correctness of having perfect product is the goal of the iterative approach. Let's check B. Opt for an iterative approach to follow early feedback. We see here uh the purpose is early feedback and here in the situation we are looking for quick delivery. That's why B is not going to respond to the project manager's need. Let's check C. Eliminate change requesters to deliver fast. We know that change requests are related to the predictive approach. And here eliminate change requests to deliver fast. uh is not going to resolve the issue because if you adopt a predictive approach, you cannot eliminate change requests. In so many cases, change requests are a must when it comes to predictive approach. So here, opting for predictive is not going to resolve the project manager's goal and stopping or eliminating change requests is not feasible. Okay, let's check the last option. D split deliverables into increments entails using an incremental approach. Let's check the incremental approach. Uh here the goal is speed which is exactly what the project manager is looking for and the right answer should be D in this case. Let's confirm. Yes, the project manager should opt for an incremental approach. Therefore, the project manager has to split deliverables into increments and ensure that the first increment has the necessary features to launch in the market and seize the opportunity. Okay, let's move on to the next question. When the sprint is almost over, one of the team members informs the project manager that they don't have enough time to properly prepare the demonstration for the sprint review since they are trying to complete the sprint backlog items. Here just a note they here refers to the team member. Here one of the team members informs the project manager that they don't have enough time to properly prepare the demonstration. So be careful in the exam if you are not native English speaker. If you see they keep in mind that sometimes it refers to the ruler and some other cases it refers to one person. It's called the singular they because by using they we don't specify the gender that's why it's used. So the PMI is using they in many questions. So if you find they here you should understand that it refers to this team member. In some other cases it refers to the project manager. In some other cases it refers to the sponsor or the product owner. So just uh note here when you see they what could the project manager suggest in order to avoid such an issue in future sprints we have said in a previous advice that the question could have two parts. Uh this is the first part of the question. The question could stop here but we have a second part that you need to pay attention to it here. What should the project manager suggest in order to avoid such an issue in future sprints? Let's check the different options. a creating a task for conducting the demonstration. Here the project manager is going to suggest that the team add a recurrent task maybe and they will add it to the sprint every time with a small estimation depending on how much they need for preparing the demonstration but at least we ensure that this task is counted in the sprint. So that could resolve the issue on hand. Let's check the different other options and see if there is competitive option to that be handling the demonstration instead of the team member. That's not possible. The project manager is not the suitable person to the demonstration. Actually, the demonstration should be done by the team member who is developed the solution. So that's why B is not right. So that could resolve the issue on hand. Let's check the different other options and see if there is a competitive option to that be handling the demonstration instead of the team member. Uh that's not possible. The project manager is not the suitable person to uh do the demonstration. Actually the demonstration should be uh done by the team member who is developed the solution. So that's why B is not good. C is not a good option. Delaying the demonstration for a few days to allow the team to get properly prepared. So here delaying the demonstration means that the demonstration will not be at the end of the sprint which is not making sense. The demonstration should always be at the end of the sprint and we know that we cannot extend this sprint and we don't allow the team to get additional time to do more stuff including preparing the demonstration. So D is not good and by using the elimination method I think the best option is A. Let's confirm yes the correct answer is A. The creation of a task for the product demonstration and making it part of the sprint allows the team to dedicate the needed time to properly prepare for the demonstration. However, you should keep in mind that the sprint demo shouldn't take up too much of the team's time. Time shouldn't be spent putting long slides, decks together. For instance, we remember that among the agile principles. We have working software importance over exhaustive documentation. So, we don't like slides. We don't like long documentations. Agile encourages real demonstrations. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is in charge of a construction project. The project manager receives an email from the quality control team stating that they are having numerous issues with one of the project vendors. What should the project manager do next? A penalize the vendor. Here uh you have issues and penalizing the vendor as a next step is not correct. So A is not a good option. Let's check B. set up a meeting with the vendor and the control quality team. So, uh setting up a meeting will be a good solution to let the two teams discuss together as a first step that the project manager could take. So, B is good. Let's check C and D. Terminate the contract without continue reading. Just spare some time. It's even more extreme than penalizing the vendor. Terminate the contract as a first step is not correct. raise the issue to the sponsor is also not correct because when having issues the project manager should deal with these issues. Here this issue is not beyond the project manager's responsibilities. That's why delegation is not appropriate. You only delegate when you don't have the power to make decisions. That's the only reason when you delegate or you find something catastrophic in the project. you find some information that could lead to the termination of the project by the sponsor. So you bring this information to the sponsor to make decisions because you find something very critical. Otherwise if there is some issues in the team, if there is some issues between the vendors and the team, if you find that stakeholders are not agreeing with each other, facilitating all kinds of issues and responding to risks especially the planned risks etc are all among the project manager's responsibilities and delegation is not appropriate. Keep that in mind. Let's check the right answer. The right answer is B. First and foremost, the project manager should be proactive and try to resolve the conflict, the quality control team and the vendor and work out a solution. The project manager oversees an agile project for developing a mobile application for a fast-paced startup. The project involves a crossf functional team comprising developers, designers, and testers. As the project progresses, the project manager encounters various challenges such as technological complexities, stakeholder communication gaps, and collaboration issues. What should the project manager's primary focus to ensure the team remains aligned with agile principles? So like we said before here is the first part of the question and here is the second part to ensure the team remains aligned with the agile principles. Let's check the different options. A ensuring the team delivers new features as frequently as possible. Here when you see as much as possible or as frequently as possible or something like that you know it's kind of extreme phrases. it's most likely a wrong option. So here in addition to having this I think the target is not only to deliver frequently but also to deliver with values. So we need to deliver values at the end of each iteration and not just deliver as frequently as possible. That's why A is not an attractive as an option. So let's check B. Establishing accurate and detailed plans. Here when you see detailed plans it recalls you with the predictive approach and here we are talking about agile principles. So as a beginning this is not a good option because it implies a predictive approach here to guide the team's work and minimize communication and quality issues. Even though the second part tries to polish this option but here established accurate and detailed plans is not appropriate and B is a wrong option. C implementing rigorous quality control measures to ensure the application meets the highest standards of performance and usability. So here it's close to the option B since we have rigorous quality control means that we are going to make control quality plan and try to define the standards and try to meet with these standards and I think this is also related to the predictive approach and not with the agile approach that's why C is not correct we know that in agile we have a principle to focus on working software ware rather than on exhaustive documentation. So let's check D. Prioritizing the delivery of features that directly contribute to the client's goals and provide tangible value to end users. This is very good as an option because it involves prioritizing of features. It involves delivering value to the client. That's why the best option is D. Let's check the right answer. Yes, delivering value should always be the agile team's top priority as it represents one of the agile manifesto principles working software over comprehensive documentation. Let's move on to the next question. Midway through the execution phase of a construction project, a key team member requests a two-month leave for personal reasons. What should the project manager do first? A find a replacement. Do you think that finding a replacement is a good first action? Of course not. That's why finding a replacement is not appropriate. Let's check B. Evaluate the impact of the team members leave on the project. This is good. Usually as a first step, we evaluate, we assess, we analyze and this is all our good course of action. So let's check the two other options. C. persuade the team member to take several short leaves over the remaining project duration instead. So here it's not appropriate to do this first if you did not evaluate the impact. So I think C could be a second step after evaluation. That's why it's not a correct option here. D asked the team member to postpone their leave as well. I think this could be an option after evaluating the impact. So the right answer should be be here. Let's confirm. Yes. The first thing the project manager should do in this situation is to understand what impact this leave will have on the project. For instance, two month leave may not have a big impact on a three-year project, but it will have a significant impact on a sixmonth project, especially if this team member is a key player. Okay, good enough. Let's move to the next question. A project manager is about to subcontract the installation of the building's heating, ventilation, and air conditioning system. The project manager is currently looking into the payment structures and terms that will be used throughout the life of the contract. When should the project manager choose a time and material contract instead of a fixed price contract? Here we need to have an idea about these two types of contracts. the time and material and the fixed price. Let's check the different options. When the goal is to limit cost risks, we usually opt for fixed price contract. That's why this option is not correct. When the scope is barely defined, this is appropriate for time and material. That's why this is a good option. When the work duration is not determined, this is also related to time and material. That's why it's a good option. when the scope is precisely defined. In this case, we opt for fixed price when the subcontractor requests its usage. Usually, the project manager is responsible for choosing an appropriate contract way. In case the project manager is the buyer like in this situation, so that's why E is not making sense. Let's check the right answer. Yes, the right answer is B and C. A time and material contract is an agreement in which the contractor is paid on the basis of the actual labor cost, hourly rates, manh hour in addition to any materials and equipment usage. This contract type is used when there is no firm scope or the work duration is not determined. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A senior team member expresses his concerns to the project manager about a new member. The senior member believes that the new member lacks the technical proficiency to properly accomplish their assigned work. Having worked together for several years, the project manager has confidence in the senior team member's judgment. What should the project manager do? Okay, in the PMP exam, you will find a few situations where we have a new team member like in this case. And usually in this case the project manager should encourage training this team member, encourage coaching them, try to educate them, guide them through the different processes etc. So let's check the different options and see if there is one of these alternatives. A release the new team member. This is of course a wrong option. Don't think twice when you see release or remove or lay off. All these are wrong options. B nothing should be done since the new team member has already been assigned. Also when you see an option with nothing should be done or project manager should ignore the situation or continue doing what you're doing that's most probably is a wrong option because we have a situation we have an issue we have something in which the project manager should intervene and such options should be wrong. C. Provide the new team member with training and mentoring. Excellent. That's what you are looking for. Providing a team member with training and mentoring. That's the best option the project manager can do. Let's check D. Keep the new team member but reassign their tasks to someone else. The first reassigning the tasks of the team member is not a good option because the team member will be disappointed and they will not learn anything because you removed their tasks and give them to someone else. So they will lack an opportunity to learn. That's why this option is not good and the right option should be C. Let's confirm. Yes, the right answer is C. A project manager should provide the new member with the needed training and mentoring. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading an agile project through twoe sprints. One week into the first sprint, the project manager got a request from the project owner to immediately cancel the sprint. What should the project manager do? Okay, here inform the project owner that the sprint is time boxed and should continue till it's predefined and date here as if the project manager is not willing to terminate the sprint according to the product owner decision. So that's why this is not a correct option and we know that in agile the product owner is the only one responsible for cancelling the sprint and if they decide to do that the project manager should comply to the product owner's decision. Let's check the different other options. B ask the team to just finish the work in progress and then terminate the sprint. Here also the project team will continue working even though the product owner asks the immediate cancel of the sprint. That's why this is not correct. Immediately cancel the sprint. Yes, it makes sense here. Since you got an order, the project manager should immediately cancel the sprint. D. Ask the product owner to provide a clear explanation of their decision in order to cancel the sprint. Okay. here. What if the product owner didn't give you a clear explanation? You will run the project. That's not making sense. Since you got a request from the product owner to cancel this sprint, just cancel it. So, the right answer should be C in this case. Let's confirm. Yes, the right answer is C. The product owner has the authority to cancel an ongoing sprint for any reason they think is valid. Let's continue with the next question. In order to promote adaptability and minimize disruptions, a project manager decides to adopt an agile development approach that allows the project team to work in a continuous flow rather than using iterationbased cycles. What should the project manager do here? What does this remind you? Continuous flow rather than iteration based cycles. The iteration based cycles is a scrum kind of framework and continuous workflow is a canban kind of framework. Let's check the different options. A implement daily standup meetings to enhance communication and collaboration. Here the situation is not about just enhancing communication and collaboration. It's about having a continuous flow rather than iteration based. and daily standups are also existing in iteration based. So we are not resolving the issue or responding to the project manager concerns. That's why A is not a correct option. Let's check B. Encourage self-organization and decision making within the team. This is also not related to the issue on hand. That's why this is not a correct. C break down project deliverables into smaller manageable increments. This is increments related to iteration based cycles. That's why it's not going to respond to the project manager endeavor. Let's check D. Use a canban framework to optimize workflow and identify bottlenecks. That's exactly what the project manager is looking for. Let's confirm. Yes, the right answer is D. The canban method involves pulling work into the system only when the team is capable of handling it. The canban method prioritizes productivity and efficiency through its workflow approach. Okay, let's move on to the next question. While controlling the project execution, the project manager in covers scope creep caused by a key stakeholder. When checking the stakeholder engagement assessment metrics, the project manager finds out that the stakeholder is classified as leading. Okay, do you remember what it means leading? It means someone who supports the project and helps the project achieves its goals. So let's check what should the project manager do in this case. A nothing since the scope creep was created by a key stakeholder. Okay, here we have a scope creep whether it is created by a key stakeholder or not. We should correct the situation and that's why doing nothing is a wrong course of action. B reverse the scope change since the project manager didn't approve it. Okay, here reversing the scope change is a work, right? You will do some work and doing that work is not part of the project scope as well. So reverting the scope change is also a scope creep. That's why in this case if a scope creep took place, don't revert it until letting the change control board review it. Okay, that's why B is a wrong option. C, take the scope creep to the change control board. That's exactly what the project manager should do. And D, nothing since changes made by leading stakeholders could only have a positive impact on the project. We know that the leading stakeholder have the intention to positively impact the project. But this doesn't mean that we will allow scope creep. Whenever D is wrong, then let's confirm. Yes, the right answer is C. The scope creep needs to go through the formal channel by reporting it to the change control board and decide with them on the appropriate course of action. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. At the end of a sprint retrospective, a team member stated that the meeting output is almost the same as the previous ones and suggested cancelling it or at least reducing its frequency. What should the project manager do here? Sometimes the project manager didn't manage this retrospective meeting very well and it becomes boring meeting. In such a case you need to listen to the attendees feedback and try to take the right decision. Let's check among the alternatives what's the right decision. They extend this print time box in order to allow for more improvements to be discussed in the retrospective. Do you think extending this print time box is a good course of action for improving the retrospective? That doesn't make sense. Of course, let's check B. Reduce the frequency of retrospectives to once every two sprints. This is meaning that we are going to cancel retrospectives for some sprints which is against the principles of agile and scrum specifically. That's why here B is the wrong option. C go with voting and if all team members agree then skip retrospectives. We said that skipping retrospectives is not going to help in agile team since we know that in agile continuous learning is one of the fundamentals and retrospectives helps in continuous learning from our mistakes and tailoring processes etc. So that's why skipping retrospectives is not an option to put on the table. D. Keep the same frequency of retrospectives and reflect on how to make them more relevant and actionable. That's exactly what should the project manager do. Try to make the retrospectives more relevant and actionable. How is that? At the end of the retrospective, the project manager will list all the action items. For example, if we discussed a couple of things and we think that these things could be improved, then we could take one or two actions for the next sprint. What we are going to do the next sprint in order to improve and based on that we are going to evaluate the impact on the next retrospective and we are going to add another action item etc. So that's how the project manager can make the retrospective more interesting. And let's check the right answer. Yes, the right answer is D. The sprint retrospective is one of the main scrum events which aims to help the team adjust and improve their work processes over time. The project manager has to better facilitate the meeting, engage team members, solicit and collect more feedback, check various metrics and use different investigation techniques, etc. Let's move on to the next question. One year into managing a construction project and during the completion and closure process, the project manager faces a key stakeholder's refusal to sign off the deliverables due to non-compliance claims. What should the project manager do next? Here when you face an issue like that, you need to do a variance analysis which means that you need to check why the stakeholder refused to sign the deliverables and what are the deliverables and try to understand what the stakeholder requests and what's existing. And once you find this, you can understand whether you are going to submit a change request or whether you are going to convince the stakeholder that this is exactly what they are requesting or try to do any kind of action based on the variance analysis. So let's check here the different options. Issue a change request. We said this after the variance analysis. Conduct a lessons learn meeting with the key stakeholder. Lessons learned usually after the closure. Now we are in a discussion about a deliverable. So this is not appropriate. Check the contracts dispute resolution close. This is too early. It's not the next step. Maybe if the problem will not be resolved. Checking the dispute resolution close could be an option. And then the D conduct a variance analysis. This is exactly what should the project manager do as a next step. And after doing this maybe we can go with A or C. And after resolving the issue after settling everything then we do lessons learned. So here one then two or two and here three. Okay let's confirm the right answer. Yes D is the right answer. Variance analysis is a technique used at the end of a project or phase in order to identify any deviation and deliverables or difference between actual and planned behaviors. Okay, let's move on to the next question. During the sprint planning, the development team estimated a task to be worth eight story points while the product owner's estimation for the same task was three story points. Therefore, the scrum master decided to assign this task five story points to bridge the gap between the two estimations. What did the scrum master do wrong in this scenario? A the scrum master should provide their estimate before making a final we can stop here actually. Do you think that the scrum master should provide their estimate? No. only the development team, the team that are going to work on the tasks should provide their estimation. That's why we stop reading here and make it wrong immediately. In the PMP exam, you don't have a lot of time. Keep that in mind. So, if you notice that this option is wrong in the middle of reading it, then stops there and continue with the next option. Don't waste your time. Okay, let's check B. The scrum master should assign 5.5 story points. And that's funny because that's not among the standard story points. We don't have decimals and in assignments. Okay, let's continue as an average for both estimates. So the scrum master thinks that this is an average. So B is a wrong option. C. The scrum master should assign three story points to the task since the product owner is the one responsible for assigning estimates. We just said that the product owner is not responsible for assigning estimates. It's the team who is responsible. That's why C is wrong and D the scrum master should assign eight story points since the development team is responsible for assigning estimates. That's the correct option. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is D. Assigning estimates is the responsibility of the development team. He is going to execute the task. Since the team's estimation was eight, then the task should be assigned eight story points. A project manager is assigned to a university complex project that consists of designing and producing 200 way finding and directional signs. These signs will be placed and installed near doors, exits, offices, elevators, etc. by another company. After getting the client's approval that the project scope is met, the project manager delivers the signs to the installation company. The letter asks the project manager to help them with the science installation. What should the project manager do? Okay, here we have in this case this project in which the project manager is working which is designing and producing this 200 way finding and directional. This is project one and we have another project two which is the installation of these wayindings indoors exits offices etc. So we have two separate projects and the second company asks the project manager of the first project to help them out. Let's check the different options. A submit a change request to assist with the signs installation. Actually this project is done once the 200 way finding and directional signs are delivered. So here change request is not appropriate since the scope of project one is done and it doesn't require change request to perform a work that is related to another project. So A is not appropriate. B do a favor for the installation company and help them out. Okay. If you are going to help them out the time that you are spending for project two is it countable? The answer is probably no. And in this case, you as a project manager, you don't have the permission to do a favor on the expenses of your first company or the company that assigned you to do this project. So that's why B is not correct. C. Create a new separate project charter for the science installation support to make it clear that it's not part of the initial project. We know that since the project two was assigned to another company, it means that the project two has its own project charter. That's why creating new separate project charter is not appropriate either. D. Do nothing since the project scope has been officially fulfilled and approved by the client. That's the most logical course of action. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is D. since they completed their project which clearly consists of only designing, producing and delivering the signs and after getting the client's official approval of the project's deliverable, the project manager's mission is done. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a big project with team members of different cultural backgrounds and nationalities. The multilingual team members use English in their day-to-day communication as they can speak it fluently. What should the project manager take into consideration? Let's check the different options. A. Due to cultural differences, the project manager should consider creating a separate code of conduct for each nationality. This is not practical. Creating a separate code of conduct for each nationality. Imagine you have a project with 20 nationalities. Are you going to create 20 code of conduct? No. Actually, if you are having one team, you should have one code of conduct and that's how it works. So, A is not appropriate. Let's check B. The project manager have to accept that some team members may have some conflicts when working with colleagues of other nationalities. Okay, conflicts could happen. But should the project manager accept that? I don't think this is a good option. I'm suspicious about this option. I think we should find a better alternative. Let's check CN D. The project manager should take into account that spoken communication may give rise to certain misunderstandings that may not occure in written communications. This is way much better than option B. I think C is better. Why? Because spoken communication may give certain misunderstandings especially if the team member are from different cultures. We know that when we are from different cultures maybe we have using different examples different proverbs different meanings of the words even though we could speak fluently the cultural background could differ and would influence the spoken communication. That's why in these cases written communication is much more clear and in case you are looking for a formal way of commitment or something like that then it's better to use written communication rather than just spoken communication. So C is good option so far. Let's check D. The project manager should keep in mind that some team members won't mind late night meetings and video conferences. That's not a good option for the project manager to let other people work until late night because they are in different countries for instance. I think this is not a good option either. That's why I prefer C. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, C is the right answer. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager works on a software project. During the last retrospective meeting, several topics were evoked. Which of the following topics can be discussed in such a meeting? Here we need to find out which is appropriate for a retrospective meeting. A how to decompose a complex user story into manageable tasks. Do you know which meeting is convenient for such a task? Yes, it's the sprint planning meeting where you decompose a complex user stories into manageable tasks. That's why this is not a thing that you do in the retrospective meeting. be which user stories should be prioritized in the next sprint. Okay, do you know the appropriate meeting for this? This is the sprint planning as well where you prioritize user stories for the next sprint. See how to fix the regression of a product feature. here trying to fix a regression of a product feature. You can do it in a separate meeting between team members either using the pairing technique or using the mobbing and swarming techniques and it's not a thing that you do during the retrospective meeting. That's why C is also a wrong option. D. Whether the standup timing is suitable for all team members. This is a thing that you can do in the retrospective meeting. Actually the retrospective meeting is used to evaluate what went well what could be improved in terms of processes. That's why discussing the timing of standup is a processes and this is something that the project team could discuss. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is D. Let's move on to the next question. During the project planning phase, stakeholders insisted that their conflicting requirements should all be considered and consolidated. That made it hard for the project manager to create a plan that satisfies all stakeholders. What should the project manager do to establish a common ground? Okay, let's check the different options. A build fox groups involving concerned stakeholders to discuss and resolve conflicting interests. Here I like how this is formulated because the fox a group involving concerned stakeholders here when you see concerned relevant or something like that it indicates a good thing and here to discuss and resolve. I think this option looks very nice. I will make it good so far. And let's check the different other options. Create a document explaining the different perspectives here without continue reading. It's better to get people involved than just writing a document and let others read it. So here in the question we have establish common ground which means that people needs to talk to each other not just reading things offline. C give each stakeholder the opportunity to write their requirements. Same here. This does not reply to the common ground. D. Use the project manager's legitimate power to decide which requirements should be prioritized. This is obviously a wrong thing because we know that in project management we should not be autocratic and in this case the project manager decides themselves. That's why it's not going to establish a common ground either. So that's lead us to the conclusion that A is the best option. Let's confirm yes, A is the correct answer. Foxy groups bring together stakeholders and subject matter experts to interactively discuss and learn about their expectations and attitudes toward a proposed service, product or result. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is managing a project with a distributed team, limited budget, and tight deadlines. The project manager wants to avoid any scope creep and keep the team focused on delivering a product that meets requirements. What should the project manager do? Okay, here the project manager doesn't want scope creep. So you can reflect a little bit what's the best option even without checking the options. The best option is that you make a very clear and documented change process. Let's check the different options and see if there is something close to this response and that should be the correct answer. A ask the project team to skip small requirements. Here you don't continue reading. Okay, a small requirement like big requirements. Don't skip things like that and don't continue reading options that seem wrong from the beginning. The questions are so many and the time is precious. Try to save your time and energy. And once you reach the conclusion early that this option is not correct, move on to the second option. Don't continue reading. B. Ensure that all alterations to the scope are authorized through a formal process. That's exactly what we think about from the beginning. So if this replies to your thoughts, then this is most probably the right answer. Here you have two choices. If you are behind in terms of time and you are in rush and you need to complete all the questions etc. Click this right and move on. Don't waste your time. If you are comfortable in terms of time, you have more time and you'd like to check and confirm whether B is really correct or you need to check the other options, you can start reading the others. One here, prevent stakeholders from directly interacting, then you skip. You know it's not correct to prevent stakeholders to interact here. Scope creep cannot be avoided in a predictive project. Therefore, the project manager should opt for an agile project instead. So we should not change the project management approach because of just one criteria. The criteria here is you'd like to limit scope creep. And to limit scope creep, you need to define a formal process, not change the approach at all. You don't know if this organization is open to change the approach. You don't know whether the team is open to use agile. You don't know whether the client is educated about agile. You don't know anything about these things in order to change the project management approach. So this is not simple decision to take because you just have one parameter. Okay, that's why D is not correct and let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is B. The project manager can avoid scope creep by adhering to the agreed open change management process. Okay, let's continue to the next question. All stakeholders are in a meeting to discuss a new project that is expected to start within one month and to last at least 10 iterations. One of the stakeholders mentions that someone should take the responsibility of developing and maintaining the product road map. Who should take this responsibility? Okay, let's check the different options. The project manager, development team, scrum master or product owner. What do you think? Here we have 10 iterations and this lead us to thinking about agile and we know that in agile the responsible for creating and maintaining the product road map is the product owner. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the product owner should be in charge of maintaining the product road map since they are responsible for the product's success. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager works for a company that does not have an official archiving procedure. The project manager has just finished a project and got the client's official approval of the final deliverables. What should the project manager do with all the associated paperwork? Let's check the different options. A nothing since the company doesn't require the archiving of performant projects. What does it mean nothing? Okay, it could mean that the project manager will not save the project documents. Is this the best course of action? I don't think so. Let's check the different other options. B archive the project documents following industry best practices. I think B is better than A. Even though the company doesn't have an official archiving procedure, you should not skip this step. You should archive them anyway and use your expertise as a project manager or your past experience to archive them according to what you know is best or what is the standard of the industry. So I think B is good so far. Let's check C. Discard the archive to comply with the company's policy. Okay, here it looks like a nice idea to comply with the company's policy, but the company's policy is not existing. It means that you can archive the project documents but there is no predefined rules that's why this is not accurate and C is not correct. D ask the client to keep the projects archive. Is that logical that you give the project documents to the client? Not always. In some cases it's fine depending on the contract. Here we don't have an idea about the contract. So it's not appropriate to give the project's archive to the client. In this case, we don't have enough data and it's not obvious that we are in a situation that we give the archive to the client. Maybe the client will decline to keep them all will not have the right to check some confidential information etc. So that's why I am willing to dismiss D and the best option is B here. Let's confirm. Yes, even though there is no official archiving procedure in place, the project manager should still organize, index, and keep the data related to completed projects. Project records should be kept for future use. Therefore, they should not be discarded by the project manager. Plus, the company doesn't have an official archiving procedure, which means that they are not calling for archive discard. That's good. Let's move on to the next question. An agile team is demonstrating a recently developed product increment. Among the deliverables is the product's logo. After explaining the meaning behind their choice for the different elements of the logo, the senior graphic designer solicited feedback. The product owner appreciated the logo. While the majority of the crossf functional team noted that the logo icon would look better if it was 20% bigger. However, the scrum master thinks that a 10% size increase would be enough to make the logo look better. Which of the following decisions should be ultimately considered? This is a long question I know and that's why PMP is a bit difficult as a exam because in some cases you will find this lengthy questions and you need to keep focused about the situation until reaching the question and reading also the options which could be lengthy as well. So to make it simple here the logo was appreciated by the product owner but the cross functional team thinks that it should be bigger by 20% and the scrum master thinks that it should be bigger by 10%. Let's check the different options. A the icon size should be increased by 20% as per the recommendation of the majority of the cross functional team. Here who decides what do you think the crossf functional team or B the icon size should be increased by 10% as per the scrum master or C it should not be increased as per the product owner and D it should not be increased because the senior graphic designer is the decision maker. Keep in mind here that when there is requirements, the decision maker is the client or the representative of the client. In agile, we have the product owner who is the representative of the client and since the product owner is pleased with the result, then C is the right answer and the icon should not be changed. Okay, let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the product owner is the one responsible for accepting or rejecting the demonstrated product increment during the iteration review meeting. This means that the icon size should not be increased. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. Two team members discuss an issue concerning server configuration. When the first member asks why this issue keeps happening, the second member says that server parameters are confusing making it difficult for him to handle its configuration. The first team member suggests that he could be consulted. The next few times the server is being configured to which the second team member agrees and the problem is resolved. Which conflict resolution technique is being used in this situation? A collaborating, B confronting, C norming and D forcing. Let's now remember together the different techniques for conflict resolutions. We have the confrontation which is also known as problem solving and this leads to a win-win situation. We also have collaborating or collaborate and which also leads to win-win situation. We have forcing which is also known as directing, compromising or reconcile, smoothing or accommodating which is also accepting the conflict and determine their impact or withdrawing or avoiding. Okay. In our case, we can eliminate two easily which is forcing. Here someone suggests be careful here. It says suggests it doesn't says directs or orders or something which is like a firm decision. Here the first member suggested something and the second team member agrees with the suggestion. So there is no forcing and here we also notes that norming here is not among the options. So norming if you remember is one of the team development stages. You remember the techman letter. It's here the time and here the efficiency of the project team and we go through different stages and at the beginning there is forming, storming, norming, then performing then a journeying. So it's not one of the conflict resolution techniques. It's rather one of the team development stages. We left out with two options. Collaborating or confronting. Collaborating is when the two different team members negotiate and try to find out a solution by collaboration. In our case, there is no real collaboration in the situation. There is someone who suggests and the other one who agrees which means that the two team members are focusing on resolving the issue on hand which is the server configuration issue. So here the right answer should be confronting and not collaborating. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, B is the correct answer. The two team members used confronting as a conflict resolution technique which is also known as problem solving. This technique is used when conflicting parties focus on finding the best solution while having confidence in each other's judgment like in this case and ability to solve the issue. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A subcontractor is engaged to install the electrical wiring of a construction project. A stakeholder requests a modification in the project scope which will result in a change in the subcontractor's workload. Which of the following documents will address how the change in the subcontractor's workload will be handled? A the change control system. B the procurement management plan. C the contract and D the project scope. Okay, here as the previous option we could eliminate too easily. What do you think we could eliminate? We could eliminate the procurement management plan because the procurement management plan will not address how the change will impact the subcontractor's workload. So you might be asking what does the procurement management plan include? Actually it includes the how part how you are going to hire the subcontractors. What parts will be subcontracted? What part will be done internally? What's the selection criteria? And all these kind of the how part is the timing for doing the subcontracting etc. All these are plans related to how to subcontract, how to procure materials and procure service providers. Okay. The second thing that we could eliminate is the project scope. The project scope defines what is part of the project and what is out of the scope. It doesn't address how the change will affect the subcontractor's workload. Now we are lefting with two options. the change control system and the contract. Okay, here for a project imagine that we are having this project you know and this project we might have multiple providers or subcontractors. Let's say that we are having three subcontractors and we are having work done by the internal team. We are having this internal team members working on the project and these three parts are done by three subcontractors. Okay, the change control system is the document. Let's imagine this is the change control system and if there is a change here, we are going to refer to this change control system. Okay. And imagine that the change is going to impact the work of this provider. Then in this case, we are going also to refer to the change control system. But for this part, we need to check the contract of that provider because the subcontractor is signed a contract with the project and that contract defines their workload. The contract is the only document that defines relationship between the subcontractor and the project manager. And in this case, the contract is the document that we could use to address how the change in the subcontractor's workload will be handled. More precisely, there is a close in the contract which is called change close. And this change close defines exactly how the change is going to performed and what's going to be the impact, how this will be negotiated etc. It includes all the details. Usually when the contract is elaborated, the change close and the contract should also be aligned with the change control process of the whole project. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the correct answer is C. Any changes to any of the predetermined contract terms between the subcontractor and the project manager, including the defined scope of work, should be addressed in the contract. The change control system describes how modifications to the project deliverables and documentation are managed and controlled. However, if the modifications impacts the work of a subcontractor, then the project manager should review the change close of the corresponding contract. Since switching to the agile approach, a project manager has been encouraging their team to be self-organizing by allowing them to decide on how to execute their assigned work. What is the main aspect of a self-organizing team? So here we need to know among the options what is the aspect of a self-organizing team? Let's check a it gives more responsibility to the project manager. This doesn't make sense. The self-organizing team is not giving more responsibility to the project manager. However, here B it gives more responsibility to the agile team seems better than A. So a self-organizing team means that the team could make more decisions especially when it comes on how to implement features user stories during the sprint and to sync together and try to make decisions what's the priority among the user stories already selected for the iteration. So B is making more sense. Let's check C and D. It allows the team to deliver a working product without external dependencies. What do you think this option could be? Correct. This is a crossf functional team which means that the crossf functional team does not require external experts or team members to help them out. They all have the necessary skills to deliver the product. So C is the crossf functional not the self-organizing aspect of a team. D gives team members higher visibility to the product. This is also not defining what a self-organizing team. Let's check the correct answer. Yes, B is the correct answer. A self-organizing team do not wait for their supervisors to assign them tasks. They determine which tasks must be accomplished, prioritize those tasks, and handle their schedules and deadlines on their own. Excellent. Let's continue to the next question. One month into the project, the sponsor contacts the project manager to express dissatisfaction with the project work. The sponsor says that the deliverables don't match neither the requirements nor the set expectations. What should the project manager do? A continue working on the next deliverable to finish the project on time. This reminds me of something. Let me show you here. This is a meme talking about people are too busy and do not like to listen to feedback or listen to advice. And here it's the same. Continue working on the next deliverables because you are feeling on rush. This is not going to solve the problem and as if you are ignoring the stakeholder or the sponsor in this case and that's not the correct action of course. Let's check B. talk to management to discuss the sponsor's concerns. Here the escalation to the management is not appropriate as a next step. You need first to check the deliverables, talk to the stakeholders, try to compare what is delivered to what is expected and then try to correct and fix the issue at this level. So here escalation is not appropriate. Let's check C and D. Ensure that the next deliverables have enough features to meet the client's expectations. Here you try to deliver more in the future. But how about the past? How about the already delivered work and how is about the expectations of the sponsor? I think you need to first understand the root causes of the sponsor's frustration and then based on that you project on the future. You decide what you will do in the future and I think the option D should reflect this. Let's confirm. Perform a scope control to verify if the deliverables meet the project objectives. Actually, that's a good option because it entails that you are going to verify the deliverables. doing a scope control to verify if the deliverables meets the expectations of the sponsor and if the deliverables also meets the requirements. So D is very good option among all the options we have. Let's confirm yes the project scope verification or control involves reviewing deliverables to make sure that each is appropriately completed as per requirements. any discovered inconsistency or dissimilarity should be rectified before seeking this sponsor formal approval through the validate scope process. So here if I could resume the scope verification or control is a process that is performed internally before moving on and trying to validate the scope with the sponsor or the representative of the sponsor. In our case, the project manager should ensure that the scope meets requirements before trying to show these deliverables to the project sponsor. Okay, let's continue to the next question. After purchasing a new software needed for the project, a project manager identifies a potential risk. The boat version might be old. In case that risk occurs, the project manager will just need to go to the settings and update the software version. Therefore, the project manager decides to passively accept the risk. Here you might get version which is not up to date and the only thing you need to do is to go to the settings and update it and that's will resolve the issue. Let's check the question in this case. Why is passive risk acceptance the appropriate approach? A because the probability of risk occurance is very low. This is not always true because sometimes we have a low probability but the impact is very critical and in this case we don't do risk acceptance. We try to elaborate risk response. We know that passive risk acceptance is that you acknowledge the existing of the risk but you don't prepare or elaborate a risk response. This is a passive risk acceptance and we do that when the risk is not really important in terms of impact or in terms of frequency and usually the impact is the main parameter we take into consideration. So in this case A is not very relevant. Let's check B because the risk occurrence is difficult to identify. If the risk occurrence is difficult to identify that's the nature definition of risk because risk is something that could happen as it could not happen. So we have probability of the occurrence of risk and that's the definition of risk. So B is not making any sense because risk would happen as it could not happen. C because it's better to deal with tribal risks when they occur. Here tribal risks means that the risks are not having a lot of importance. Their impact is very low and that's exactly when we use passive risk acceptance. And C seems a very good option. D because the risk is not on the critical path. We talk about activities on the critical path not risks. So here maybe we could attach risk to an activity. And in this case we say that because the risk is attached to an activity which is not in the critical path. And actually it doesn't matter if the activity is on the critical path or not. If a risk could impact the project it could be even in other tasks that are not in the critical path and these tasks could be critical. So that's why the best option here is C. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is C. Let's move on to the next question. The project manager recently learned that one of the seniority members will be promoted to manage a new project within the organization. When this happens, the project manager will lose a valuable member in the team. What should the project manager do next? Let's check the different options. A. Try to influence management to delay the team's members promotion until the project is completed. Do you think this is the right option? Of course not. The project manager should not do something bad to the team member. Imagine if the project manager do this. The team member how they will feel. You will prevent them from a promotion which is supposed to be a good thing for the team member. So this is not a good course of action. A is wrong. B. Inform the team member about the promotion and ask them to transfer their responsibilities to another team member. Here ask them refers to the team member. So here the project manager will ask the team member to transfer their responsibilities and you need here to pay attention to the question. We talk here about a promotion that does not happen yet. When this happen the project manager will lose a valuable member in the team. Okay. So the promotion could happen in one week could happen in one month. It could be happening in three months. We don't know. It's something in the future. So asking the team member to transfer their responsibilities based on something that is not taking place already is not appropriate. That's why I think B is not appropriate. Let's check C and D. C. Ask the team member to prepare a transition plan once they get officially promoted. This is actually very good. This is better than the option B because it confirms first that the promotion takes place then the action of preparing a transition plan is launched. All right. So here C is a good option. Let's check D. Acquire another resource to replace the team member. Here of course replacing a team member is too early because the promotion have not taken place yet. Let's check the right answer. Yes, C is the right answer. Transitions and the changes of roles are all common occurrences in a project. Therefore, creating a transition plan can ensure the smooth functioning of the project during times of change. A transition plan outlines the handoff process and defines all the priorities, goals, and strategies for a successful shift. However, the project manager can only ask the team member to prepare this plan when the promotion becomes official through a transfer order. for instance. Okay, let's move on to the next question. During a bidder conference, a supplier brought to the project manager's attention a missing requirement in the request for proposal. When checking the RFP, the project manager realized that the supplier was right. Therefore, the project manager made sure to talk about this particular requirement and its acceptance criteria for 15 minutes to ensure that all attending suppliers were fully aware of it. When sellers responses were received, only one prospective supplier addressed the missing requirement. What should the project manager do next? Okay, here we have a situation where the project manager is holding better conference and there is a missing in the requirements and the project manager talked about this particular requirements for 15 minutes. Okay. Then when receiving the proposals, just one seller responded to this missing requirements. What should the project manager do next? Let's check the different options. A retain the supplier who noted the missing requirement. Should you do that? But the supplier who noted the missing requirement maybe did not respond to this requirement and the and their proposal. I don't like this A too much. Let's check B. Retain the supply who addressed the missing requirements in their response. Okay. If you are going to base your selection on this only, maybe you will not get the best supplier. You only be based on this missing requirement. How about the other requirements? How about all the selection source criteria? So A and B does not look very good. Let's check C. extend the deadline to receive more proposals and have more choices. Okay, if you are going to extend the deadline, are you going to explain why? Because if you are going to extend the deadline, it means that you are not going to consider the first round of proposals and you need to explain. So I think that makes sense. But here in the option C, it does not explain what's beyond extending the deadline. So let's check D if it looks better or not. Send an adjusted RFP comprising the missing requirement to all suppliers and give them the opportunity to resubmit their proposals. So this explains C in a very clear way. I like it over C and over A and B because if you select a supplier and you did not correct this mistake let's say because the project manager only uses verbal communication in explaining the missing requirements just after the project manager have to send a written format to all prospective suppliers and give them the opportunity to reply to these missing requirements. This does not happen and that's why only one prospective supplier addressed the missing requirements. So the project manager should correct themselves and adjust the RFP, send it again to the prospective suppliers and also apologize for not sending this adjusted RFP earlier and extend the deadline and hopefully receive completed proposals the next time. Okay, so D here is the best option among all the options we have. And yes, the correct answer is D. Sending the altered RFP to all suppliers, highlighting the requirement that was previously missing and allowing them to send updated responses to the RFP would be fair to all suppliers. Moreover, in this situation, formal written communication is highly recommended as verbal communication might be misunderstood or forgotten. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. After sizing the selected product backlog items for the next release, the product owner estimated that five sprints are needed to complete the release. However, after two sprints, the project manager finds out that the velocity of the team has declined for various reasons, which means that the release deadline won't be met. What should the project manager do next? Okay, let's check the different options. A, repp prioritize the backlog. Should the project manager rep prioritize the backlog? Does the project manager have the privilege and the power to do the rep prioritization of the backlog? Of course, no. That's why this is wrong. The product owner in agile project is the only one who is owning the product backlog which means they are the only one who is responsible for prioritizing product backlog items. Anyone on the team or stakeholders could add product backlog items but the final say is with the product owner whether these product backlog items should be prioritized or not. Okay, let's check B. add more members to the team. Okay, here if you add more members to the team, you could achieve more in terms of velocity, right? That's possible. Okay, and that could also lead to completing the release on time. That's fine. But can the project manager take this decision alone? No, the project manager cannot take this decision alone. Adding more members to the team should be based on a consultation with the product owner who should approve this. Why is that? Because the project manager in agile is not responsible on the finance side. So adding more members have financial impacts and since it has financial impact then the product owner is involved. That's why B is not correct. Okay. See decompose user stories to increase the velocity of the team. If you are going to decompose user stories, you are not going to increase the velocity of the team. Example, you have this user story and this user story is estimated at let's say eight story points and you decide you know what this is big and we don't like eight user stories and we need to decompose it. And imagine that you come up with two user stories. Actually, these two user stories will not have estimations eight. Maybe this will be five. Maybe this will be three. At the end of the day, the decomposition of user stories will not give you any gains in terms of velocity. Okay, that's why C is not correct. D. Discuss the issue with the product owner to find the appropriate solution. That's exactly what the project manager should do. D is correct because you need to talk to the product owner. You inform them about the facts you have on hand and based on that the product owner will either accept that we need to decrease the expectations of the release or we need to add more members or whatever is the option they choose. So let's check the correct answer. Yes, D is the correct answer. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. During a meeting with 15 stakeholders, the product owner was discussing and collecting ideas about the product requirements. Since there were a lot of suggested ideas, the product owner decided to vote. After voting, the product owner found a particular idea received nine votes. So, the product owner went with that option. What type of decision making does this depect? unanimity, majority, plurality or dictatorship. Okay, here we have 15 stakeholders and we get nine votes. If it's unanimity, it should be 15 votes for a particular idea. But we only got nine votes. That's why unonymity is not correct. Majority on the other hand is correct because we have nine on this side and we have six on the other side. So nine is the majority that's why majority is correct. Plurality in the case we have more ideas and for instance this idea get let's say six another idea got let's say five and the other idea is four. And you can see that the winning idea is six even though it does not reach the majority. The majority here should be eight at least. But here six is lower than 50% of the votes. And in this case we talk about plurality. But we are not in this case. That's why plurality is not correct option. Dictatorship is just one person decides and the others do not decide. It's not a voting technique either. Just one person is the decision maker. So let's confirm the right answer. Yes, B is the right answer. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a software project. A team member is in charge of developing the user interface. Even though this member is doing a greater job, their work pace is way slower than expected, which can cause the whole project to miss its deadline. What should the project manager do first in this situation? Let's check the different options. A delegate some of the team members tasks to other team members. Here we have a situation where we have an issue and we know that if there is an issue and what should the project manager do first? We should not make decisions. We should first understand the root cause of the issue and based on that we make decisions. That's why here delegate is making decision and it should not be the first thing that the project manager should do. That's why I think A is not good option. Let's check B. Remove the team member from the project. This is even more extreme than the first one. Removing the team member because they are doing a great job. That's not making sense either. So B is wrong of course. C find out the cause of the team members slow work pace that's exactly what the project manager should do first try to find out the cause and based on that you make decisions and ideally you let the team members find out the solution. You ask the team member what's the best course of action we can do. You ask the team member why the pace is slow. What do you think we can do to improve the pace? So the team member tries to reflect and tries to give solutions. Don't jump right away on the conclusion and try to order and direct team members. C is the best option so far. Let's check D. Give the concern team member other non-critical tasks. This is similar to delegating. This is will only let the team member down and you will give them a message that this team member is not reliable and you remove their tasks and you give them another non-critical task. This is not a good course of action. Of course, let's confirm the right answer. Yes, C is the correct answer. Before taking any corrective measures, the project manager should determine the underlying cause of the problem. If it turns out that the concerned team member is overallocated, it might be better to assign some of their work to another team members. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A stakeholder is pressuring the project team to make some changes to the product. The project manager informs the stakeholder that the changes cannot be implemented immediately due to the established processes. What should the project manager refer the stakeholder to? the change control plan, the change control system, the organizational process assets or the scope management plan. Okay, here if we try to remember the stages of our project, we have here initiation and we have here planning and you have here executing and then controlling and monitoring and then closing process. Okay. So here the project manager says here we are in the execution of the project and the stakeholder wants to do some changes and the project manager says that there are established processes that prevents from doing those changes right away. What the project manager mean? They means that there is a change management processes. There is a change control system in place that the stakeholder should refer to and should consult. So B is the correct answer. Why A, C and D are wrong? Then here the change control plan informs how to establish the change control process. So if the stakeholder check this one it will says in order to set up a change control system you need to have a meeting with the key stakeholders including this one and this one you need to establish the change control process you need etc etc. So it's a plan about how to form this one. So it doesn't have the change control system itself just how to make it. That's why the change control plan is not the document that the project manager is talking about. The scope management plan is a plan established in the planning phase and it defines how we are going to collect the scope, how we are going to manage the scope etc. It's not a document that defines how we are going to implement changes. Same for organizational process assets. It's the set of documents and processes that an organization might have in general. It's a set of processes and documents that the organization is having and following. And it's a broad answer for this. The more precise answer is B. And let's confirm yes. The change control system is a set of procedures that describes how modifications to the project deliverables and documentation are managed and controlled. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager floated a request for proposal to acquire an inventory management system. To clarify some points, the project manager held a bidder conference with the prospective sellers. What should the project manager do during the bidder conference? Select two options. Here we see that we have five options, not four options. In the PMP exam, sometimes you get more than four options, especially when the right options are two or three. In this case, we might have more than four options. But you will not see a lot of these questions, only a few of them in your exam. Okay, let's check the different options. Award the contracts. This is wrong. The project manager does not award the contract in the bidder conference. B. Clarify any doubts. That's correct. We have already seen a question related to this and the project manager should answer all questions related to the concerned RFP. C. Share the bid document with participants. Sharing the bid document should be before the bidder conference. The participants who are the prospective sellers should have a copy of the RFP. They should already read it, have idea about it, write down the questions or concerns they have and then when they come to the bidder conference, they ask these questions. That's why C is not correct. D shortlist prospective sellers. Bidder conference is not used for shortlisting prospective sellers. E explain the bid terms and conditions. That's something that the project manager could do during this type of conference. Okay, the right answer then should be B and E here. Let's confirm. Yes, the right answer is B and E. Bidder conference which is also known as contractor conference or vendor conference is arranged to ensure that sellers have a common understanding of the project procurement requirements. During the conference, the project manager and the stakeholders will discuss their procurement needs and answer any questions the sellers might have. A project manager must assign a complex task to one of the team members. The project manager had to choose between two members who were both equally capable of fulfilling the task. But the project manager had a close relationship with one of them than the other. What should the project manager do in this case? Let's check the different options. A disclose the situation to the appropriate stakeholders and solicit a joint decision as we have mentioned in previous videos. Appropriate here is a good keyword and I don't see anything wrong in this option. So it could be a right solution. Let's check the other options. B choose the one that the project manager has a closer relationship with since that type of trust can benefit the project. Okay, it could benefit the project but it could also be considered as a conflict of interest and we know that the project manager should not be in such situations. If there is a situation where there is a relative involved then the project manager should inform the appropriate stakeholders. That's would be better. Let's check see choose the member the project manager is not close to in order to avoid misunderstanding here. In this case, the project manager will miss the opportunity of having someone who has a close relationship with. So, it's not ideal to do this or do the other. Maybe have a joint decision is better. Let's check D. Ask a third team member to take the decision in order to avoid a conflict of interest. Here delegating the decision to someone else maybe is not appropriate in this case because in this case you are going to completely rely on the third team member's decision and you will not have any control over the decision. So ideally the decision is not just based on the relationship it should be based on factors which is more relevant to the task. So among all the options I see that A is the best option. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is A. As the PMI code of ethics indicates under the fairness chapter, the project manager should disclose any potential or real conflict of interest to stakeholders. Okay, let's move on to the next question. During the project execution, a team member informs the project manager that electronic equipment used in the project are no longer functioning due to the excessively hot weather. What should the project manager do to solve the problem? Select three. Here we have five options. Let's check them quickly and see what we could eliminate. Okay, so identify the problem. In order to solve the problem, you need to identify it. It makes sense. Let's check the other options. B. Analyze the problem. Yes, of course. C. Prevent the problem here. To solve the problem. So, we are assuming that the problem already took place. That's why prevent the problem doesn't look right to me. So, I'm going to dismiss this. Check the solution. Yes, after implementing the solution, you need to check it to verify if it's going to solve the problem completely or not. E. Keep the solution. Here, not necessarily that you keep the solution. If you check the solution and you find that the solution is not that convenient, then you need to do another iteration and correct the solution and come up with a second let's say solution. So that's why keep this solution is not right. Okay, here the correct answer would be A, B and D. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is A, B and D. Let's move on to the next question. While reviewing the latest report of the project team's performance, a project manager notices a major drop in their output. What should the project manager do to raise the team's productivity? Okay, let's check the different options. Increase the pressure on each. We can stop here. Increasing the pressure is not good term. Maybe this option if it's paraphrased to create a sense of urgency or something like that maybe it would be better but just increasing the pressure is having a negative let's say sense that's why I don't like this option very much let's check the other options maybe we can find something better conduct daily performance reviews to keep the team focused and motivated here we know that performance reviews are usually done quarterly or twice a year or once a year. So if you conduct daily performance reviews, that's too much for the team. It will waste a lot of precious time and it's not practical. That's why I don't think B is the right option. Let's check C. Offer a special reward for the best performing team members. We know that if you reward a team member and you don't reward the rest, you will create an envy among team members and that will not help the team as a whole. It is called a zero sum reward and it's not recommended at all. So that's why I think C is not a good option. Let's check D. Improve and promote trust and cohesiveness among team members. That's the best option I can see among all the alternatives. I think obviously B is the best. Let's check the correct answer. Yes, D is the correct answer. Improving feelings of trust and cohesiveness among team members improves productivity. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. During a meeting with the sponsor, the project manager is asked how much work is left and whether the team will be able to finish the project on time. Which of the following point in time measurements can the project manager use to answer the sponsor's questions? We need to select two options. Let's check the different options. Product backlog. Actually, the product backlog is answering the question of how much left I think is here. How work is left? But it's not a measurement. We cannot say that product backlog is a measurement. That's why I don't think A making a lot of sense. Let's check B feature burn up chart. This is a measurement and this can show how much work is left. So usually a feature burndown chart is looking like that and we can see over sprints how many features we have done and how many feature remains and that's would answer the sponsor's question. B is a correct answer in this case. Let's check C. Sprint burndown chart. Here the burndown chart is related to the sprint. So it will not show the sponsor how work is left in the project. So this only shows how work is left in the sprint. It doesn't show on project level. That's why this C is not correct. D lead time. Lead time is correct in this sense. Why? Because lead time we usually use an accumulative flow diagram like you can see here. And we can find out the lead time which gives us the information. How much time does the team usually need in order to reach the completed work. We know the definition of lead time is the time where task is created until the time it is delivered. So we know approximately using lead time how much time do the project team needs to complete the project. So this will help us respond to this second part. So to conclude the right answer is B and D. Let's confirm yes the right answer is B and D. Feature burn up and burndown charts lead time and cycle time provide in the moment measurements giving insight into the team's capacity and the schedules predictability. Perfect. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a software development project using an agile framework. In the current iteration, the team encounters a technical challenge related to integrating a third-party API into the system. To address this challenge, the team decided to allocate time for a spike to look into the issue. Based on the below iteration burndown chart, at which period of the iteration did the team take the spike A, B, C or D? Okay, here we have this sprint. So we have 10 days and we know that if we are having a spike usually the team is focusing on doing research they are not progressing on the project and if we can see here the burndown chart we can obviously see that this period B there is no progress for the team. The team is not progressing on the project and most probably because they are working on a spike. So the right answer should be B in this case. Let's confirm. Yes, B is the correct answer. A spike is a timeboxed activity aimed at addressing a technical challenge or mitigating risks. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading the development of a new software project. The project manager wants to adopt an approach that produces key deliverables at various stages of the project. What should the project manager do? Here we have an approach that have key deliverables in various stages. So if we have this timeline for the project, we might have a deliverable here, one here, another here, maybe another one here, etc. So let's check the different options. Create a detailed project schedule with key milestones to track progress against the plan. This reminds us with the predictive approach and we can see here key milestones but no deliverables. We can have different milestones without having deliverables. That's possible with the predictive approach. But here in this option there is no indication that we have multiple deliverables like we have in this scenario. That's why I'm going to dismiss A. Let's check B. Deliver incremental results that can be added to the subsequent results. That's exactly what the project manager is looking for because there is here incremental and there is here delivery of incremental results and these results are added to the other results at the end to give the final deliverable. So we have here intermediate deliverables. I think B is the right answer here. If you are in a rush you can move on to the next question. If you are having time you can check the other options here. Here are the other options we can check them quickly. Organize frequent review meetings with project stakeholders to gather feedback and adjust project direction. This is an iterative approach and we know with the iterative approach is not necessarily that you have multiple deliveries. Usually you have one delivery at the end and you have multiple iterations where there is a non-completed product and there is improvements and stuff like that. That's why C is not correct because it doesn't have many deliverables. D adopt an iterative approach. This is the same as C but this is more direct in order to deliver the highest business value earlier. Actually the iterative approach focuses on the correctness not on delivering higher business value earlier. That's the purpose of the incremental approach. Let's check the right answer. Yes, the right answer is B. Delivering partial results at various intervals refers to the incremental approach. Excellent. Let's move to the next question. By the end of the third iteration, a project manager delivered the website to the customer and signed a maintenance contract to fix any issues that might occur. On the first day of the maintenance contract period, the customer reported an error on the contact page when using a smartphone. After verifying the issue with the project team, the project manager realizes that testing the contact feature on mobile was omitted. What should the project manager do next? Here to summarize the scenario, we have a project manager who delivered the website. The project is closed and another maintenance project is started. But on the first day, an error occurs because there is an omission that took place in the main project. Let's check the different options. A reopen the project and fix the error since testing the contract feature on mobile was a method. Here reopening the project is not an option that you need to put on the table because once the project is closed it's over. It's closed. Especially that here we have a maintenance contract and usually in the maintenance contract we fix issues that are post delivery and in this case we have an issue that appears post delivery. So that's why reopening the project is not appropriate. You need to deal with this issue with the new maintenance project and A is wrong. B ask the sponsor to submit a formal change request with an interior date in order to be considered as part of the project. Here what the project manager is asking is not ethical actually. How you are going to submit a change request with an interior date? That's not a good course of action. Don't do this if you are project manager. Take my advice. Okay. So B here is wrong. Let's check C. Request from the project team to fix the issue according to the maintenance contract. That's exactly what should be done. Actually I like this option C. That's the correct course of action. D. Do nothing since the error is discovered after the formal closure of the project. How you do nothing and you have a maintenance contract? you need to fix the issue, right? So, since you have a maintenance contract, you need to fix the issue according to the maintenance contract. So, the right answer is C. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is C. An escaped defect is one that was not detected by the project team, but rather discovered by the customer or end user after the product is released. These defects are usually covered by a maintenance contract. Therefore, the project manager should request from the project team to fix the issue according to the maintenance contract. Okay, let's move on to the next question. This is the first time the project manager adopts the scrum framework for the project execution. One of the team members asks the project manager when a sprint is considered completed. What should be the project manager's response? Okay, let's check here the different options. A when all product backlog items are completed here when all product backlog items are completed then the project is completed not the sprint and here in this case completing the product backlog is kind of a dream because from all the project that I have witnessed it's usually the project ends before completing all the product backlog because you know that in agile approach we have usually a very long product backlog and We prioritize value and we always try to bring the most value items on top and at the end of the project usually we remain with few product backlog items which are not very valuable and the product owner in many cases decides to complete the project even though there remains some items and in this case these items will be archived that's it. So here completing all the product backlog items is very idealistic and if the project team completed this they completed the project not the sprint. So A is not correct when it comes to our situation. B when all the tasks in the sprint are completed. This option contradicts the definition of a sprint which is a time boxed duration. And we know that a time boxer duration means that when the duration ends, the work should end and we need to start another iteration. So that's why waiting until completing all the tasks is not correct. You might be asking what if there is remaining tasks which are not completed what we going to do with them? Actually the answer is these items will be either moved to the next iteration if the product owner decides that these items are still with high priority or they will go back to the product backlog and then rep prioritized in next sprints. So depending on the priorities of the product owner okay let's check the option C when the sprints defined time box ends. That's exactly the definition of a sprint and that's exactly how the project manager should respond the team members. We can here see an example of a sprint of two weeks. Usually we start the sprint with the planning and we work on this sprint for two weeks. At the end of the two weeks, we have a sprint review and sprint retrospective. And we finish the sprint and we start another sprint with the planning and retrospective and review at the end. So keep in mind that a sprint is a time box duration. It ends when the duration ends. That's it. If we have remaining items, we can move it them to the next sprint or the subsequent sprints. Okay. Here the right answer is C. D when all product backlog items meet the definition of done. Actually that's very similar to the option A and of course it's not correct. Let's check here the right answer. Yes, C is the right answer. A sprint is considered complete only when it reaches the end of its duration or time box which is usually one to four weeks. In some cases the sprint ends without finishing all of the assigned tasks. So this can't be the criteria for sprint completion. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is facing some challenges because of a key stakeholder. The project manager collaborated with this stakeholder in previous projects where the letter frequently changed the requirements and created trouble whenever those requirements were not met. How should the project manager deal with this issue? Okay, let's check the different options. adopt an agile approach. Here in this scenario, we are focusing on a stakeholder issue. Okay. So we have a key stakeholder and we have issue with the stakeholder. So among the options, I prefer to see one option trying to give solution for the specific situation especially when it comes to stakeholder management. That's why I don't think A is a correct option even though it looks attractive because we know that in agile approach requirements are dynamic and agile could fit very well with the key stakeholder. But here we don't know whether all the stakeholders are similar to this stakeholder. Maybe we have just one key stakeholder like that and so many other stakeholders who are not like them. So changing the development approach based on this stakeholder is not making sense. Also we don't have any information about the other things. We don't have any information about the different approaches and the question either doesn't talk about the development approaches. It's not like what should the project manager adopt as an approach or something like that. So the question is specific to stakeholder management. So sometimes you need to be very careful when reading the question because the way how the question is written, the way how the situation is crafted could give you an indication of the right answer and could help you find out the right answer among all the options. Even though this could look attractive, but the right answer should deal with this issue with the stakeholder management issue. B. Involve the concerned stakeholder right from the start. That's exactly what I'm looking for. It goes with the spirit of the question. And I prefer B over A. Let's check C and D. Ask the concerned stakeholder to man their ways. Of course, you cannot change the behavior of stakeholders just by asking them to man their ways. So, it's not going to happen, you know. Let's check D. Inform management about the issue. This is escalation. And in this case, you don't need to escalate. As a project manager, you need to deal with such issues yourself. And the right answer should be be here. Let's confirm. Yes, a project manager should involve the key stakeholder from the very beginning of the project to help reduce and uncover risks as well as increase their buyin. Okay, let's move on to the next question. The project manager is managing a software development project which was planned to last three months. Throughout the entire project progress aligned with the planet schedule. However, one day before the delivery deadline, a team member discovered a bug that could cause a one week delay. What should the project manager do next? That's not the ideal case. Okay, let's check the different options. inform the stakeholders that there is a bug that requires two to three days to fix. Okay, here you need to stop here right away. No, here in the scenario we said one week and here you are going to communicate two or 3 days. This is not ethical. Okay, that's very simple and you need to dismiss right away. You need to be ethical and only report things which are real. Don't alter informations to gain support. the project manager should not lie under any circumstances. Okay, let's check B. Inform the stakeholders about the situation. That's a good start. And that it may take a week to resolve the bug. That's very cool. I don't think anything wrong with this option. So that's fine. I mark it as correct. And let's check the two other options. Update the lessons learned and add them here. Are you going to update the lessons learned without fixing the issue first? What you should do next is fixing the issue. Then do the lessons learned. So useless to continue reading the lessons learned update should be after everything settles down. So I think C is wrong because of this reason. D close the project since the project end date is reached. Here the project end date is reached. Okay. But here we are one day before delivery. So discovering the back took place before the end of the project. That's one. Two from the scenario this is seems a predictive project because this planned to for three months and throughout the entire project progress aligned with the planned schedule. So we are here in a predictive approach and we know that in a predictive approach the project is over once the scope is completed and since we have a bug it means that the scope is not completed. So you need to complete all the scope, fix all the issues, then close the project. That's why here closing the project is not a correct option. And the right answer is B in our case. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is B. As soon as it becomes obvious that the project will be delayed, the project manager should notify the client and present them with the new alternatives. The project manager should be honest and transparent about delays under the responsibility section of the PMI's code of ethics and professional conduct. Page three, when the project manager discovers errors or omissions caused by others, they should communicate them to the appropriate body as soon as they are discovered. An organization decided to conduct a personality test. A team member is confident that the quiz results will reveal their pragmatic personality as they only believe in facts and never rely on intuition. What should the team members personality type be? Sensing, thinking, judging or perceiving. Here in such a case, you need to understand the difference between these personality types. And usually the questions in the PMP are about these kind of types which are related to the MBTI personality test. So here you need to know the difference between extrovert and introvert. The sensing and intuition thinking, feeling, judging and perceiving. Here in our case since this team member never relies on intuition the opposite of being non-intuitive people is a sensing person. So here the right answer should be a sensing. Let's confirm yes since the project manager never relies on intuition their style should be sensing. Sensing is when you play close attention to reality, concentrate on facts and details, and take advantage of practical experience. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A product owner sends a document including all the product backlog items to the project manager. The project manager informs the product owner that these product backlog items should be prioritized throughout the project. What should the project manager recommend? Okay, let's check the different options about prioritizing these project backlog items. A the business analyst and project manager collaborate to define the priorities of the product backlog items. Actually, we know that in agile the product owner is responsible for prioritizing the product backlog items. That's why here having the business analyst and the project manager without involving the product owner seems a little bit odd. So this looks wrong. Let's check option B. The team prioritized the product backlog items based on their size. Okay, we can stop here. The team does not prioritize the product backlog items. It's one of the responsibilities of the product owner. Let's check C. The product owner places the most valuable items at the top. That's excellent. Actually, I don't see anything wrong in this. Let's check D. The sponsor decides the priority of product backlog items here. We don't need the involvement of the sponsor when it comes to prioritizing the product backlog items. That's why C is the best option among all the options we have. Let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is C. Ordering the product backlog items is one of the product owner responsibilities. Although they may delegate the responsibility to others and even though the product owner delegates their responsibility, they still remains accountable. The most valuable product backlog items should be placed at the top. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a software project using a predictive approach. During execution, a team member developed a new feature that caused regressions on the other features already used by the client. What should the project manager do? Here we need to select three correct answers. And in this case, we have five alternatives, not four. Okay, let's check a submit a change request to fix the resulting regression. Since we are operating under a predictive approach, then submitting a change request is a correct course of action. That's why A is good. Let's check B. Inform the concerned stakeholders about the regressions, their impact, and the proposed solutions. This is also seems very good. So, I'm going to mark it right. Let's check C. Set up a lessons learned meeting to avoid similar issues in the future. Yes, this is also good. So I think C is also correct. We already selected three. Let's check D and E. Since it's an internal problem, try to fix it without the customer's notes. This is absolutely a wrong thing to do. Try always to be authentic and don't hide anything. If there is an error, a regression, an issue or anything, you need to communicate that to stakeholders. I know it's a little bit intimidating to share bad news but this is one of your responsibilities as a project manager. If you have any new piece of information whether it's bad or good you need to share that. Okay. So D is wrong. Let's check E. Ignore the regressions here. When you see ignore most probably it's wrong option. So ignoring the regression and focus on completing the project as schedule is not logical course of action. You should not ignore the regressions under any circumstances. Okay. So the right answer for our question is A, B and C. Let's confirm yes A, B and C are the right answers. When issues occur, the right course of action implies forming the client of what happened, suggesting potential solutions for the issue, and then submitting a change request. This is aligned with the philosophy stating, "Don't bring me problems, bring me solutions." Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is leading a software development project using a hybrid approach. During project execution, the sponsor left the project and a new sponsor was assigned. When the project manager informed the new sponsor that the deliverables were produced using a hybrid project management approach, the sponsor asked for proof. How should the project manager address the new sponsor's request? Okay, here the sponsor or the new sponsor is asking for a proof that the project manager is using a hybrid approach. Let's check the different options. A explain the hybrid approach to the new sponsor. Actually, the sponsor asked an approve did not ask for an explanation of the hybrid approach. That's why A is not aligned with the scenario and it should be wrong option. Let's check B. Ask the new sponsor to reach out to the project team in order to get a clear explanation of how the product is being developed. It's same here. You are going to forward the sponsor to the team and this is will not address the sponsor's concern because the sponsor wants a proof and most probably this is should be formal. So asking the project team and the project team will explain to them how the product is being developed. I guess this is not the right option. So I'm going to check C and D and check if there is any better alternative. Let's check C. Present the project charter to the new sponsor. Okay, the charter is a formal proof but I'm doubting that the charter includes the information about the development approach. Usually in the charter we have high level information and probably it doesn't have the information of using the hybrid approach. Let's check D. Present the project management plan to the new sponsor. Actually, the project management plan should include the project development approach and by presenting the project management plan, I think it's a safe side and for sure the project manager will respond to the new sponsor's concern. Okay, so let's confirm the right answer. Yes, the right answer is D. Since the project follows a hybrid approach, it should be pointed out in the development approach. The project management plan includes the project development approach as one of its elements. Excellent. Let's move on to the next question. During the sprint planning, the team deco composed a user story into four tasks. When working on the user story, a team member identified a fifth task. What should the team member do? update the user story and work on the new task or report the issue to the scrum master or request from the product owner to approve the new task or add the new task to the product backlog. Okay, here we need to keep in mind something. Let me show you the story mapping and in order to understand the scenario in this sprint planning here the sprint planning we select the user stories for the next sprint and then the team de composed the user story into tasks and here in our case the team deco composed a user story into four tasks but later on the team member discovers that another task is needed here five task instead of four. In this case, we don't need to report the issue to the scrum master. We don't need to request approval from the product owner and we don't need to add it to the product backlog. The team member is aware of the user story, its acceptance criteria and its definition of done. So if they notice that some technical work is needed to achieve the goal of the user story, they do it during the sprint and they update the user story right away and work on the new identified task. So you might be asking in which case the team member needs to add the new task or the new work into the product backlog. Actually, if the task is separate from the user story, it doesn't contribute to the acceptance criteria and the definition of done for the user story, then it could be another user story or it could be another task separate that will be put in the product backlog. In our case, it's related to the user story since we said that we identified a fifth task. So you need to differentiate between these two scenarios. Be careful in your exam. If it is a technical task related to user story, then the team member should work on it. But if it's another work which could be separate from the user story, then it should be added to the product backlog and the product owner later on should approve it etc. Okay. So here a the right answer the project team is responsible for how to do the work. Therefore if a new task is identified within the user story it could be immediately added. Okay let's move to the next question. A data science project manager is used to implement projects with the hybrid approach. Her organization owns two servers for manipulating big data with one server being more performant than the other. After a meeting with a potential client, the project manager informed her superior that if this project is approved, she would like to use the organization's performance server and have the senior developer Adam as part of the project team. Does the project manager have the right to make such a request? Okay, let's check the different options. A yes, project managers can reassign resources if they need to. Actually this is the concept of pre-assignment and if the project manager notices that there is some resources whether human resources or physical resources are needed to achieve the project they could preassign resources at any phase of the project even in the initiation phase which is this case actually we are in the initiation phase and the project manager wanted to preassign resources so I don't see anything wrong in this option. and I will mark it correct so far. B. Yes, competition over resources is common. So, project managers should be proactive in reserving them. Actually, it's not about competition over resources. If your project is chartered, then you need to get the adequate resources for your project. And in our case, it's not about competition. It's about identifying the required resources for your project. In this case, the project manager thinks that this project would require a performance server and would require a senior developer like Adam in our case. So I think A is making more sense than B. Let's check the remaining options. C and D here. No, the project manager cannot preassign. So this is not correct. And D, no, in hybrid project it's the product owner's responsibility to acquire and develop resources. This is not accurate actually because we are in a hybrid project. So it really depends and there is no strict rule that says the product owner is responsible for that. So C and D are not correct and not accurate. And the right answer in our case should be A. Let's confirm yes. Resources can be identified as early as the initiation phase often through preassignment or resource negotiations. All right, let's move on to the next question. While having a meeting with the organization's CEO, a project manager got a call from a team member asking for a 4-day leave to attend a religious celebration. The project manager immediately refused the team member's request since the project is already behind schedule and it was approaching its deadline. The CEO who was listening to the conversation intervened to discuss the matter with the team member. After a long call, the CEO decided to allow the team member to only get a two-day leave. What type of conflict management technique did the project manager use in this situation? Is it smoothing, compromising, forcing, or collaborating? In this case, we should be able to dismiss quickly two alternatives. There is no collaborating in our case. There is no collaboration. I don't see any collaboration. Even if you think that the CEO collaborated with the team member, maybe not because instead of 4 days, they reached two days. There's no collaboration. None are happy. The project manager first refused. So I think we could say immediately that this is a compromise. But here you should be careful because a compromise is what the CEO did. Actually the question is about the project manager what the project manager use in this situation. The project manager did not use a compromise. The project manager tried to force a solution because I think here you can see the project manager immediately refused the request and tried to use their formal position and coercive power to impose the decision of not getting any leave. Then the CEO used the compromising. So consequently the right answer should be C in our case. Let's confirm. Yes, the project manager used the forcing resolution technique since they firmly refused the project member's request. This is a winlow situation. The CEO used the compromising technique since they tried to partially satisfy the two parties which usually results in a lose lose situation. So we don't have a lot of these kind of questions in PMP but if you have one then be careful who is addressed in this situation because in such a case it will be misleading because you right away jump on compromising because you think of the CEO decision but the question is about the project manager decision. So here in some cases as I said it's not a lot but in some cases the scenario and the question are not like you know direct you need to focus on the question. The question is key you need to answer the question not just answering what goes in your mind when you read the scenario. Okay that's a precious advice when it comes to the PMP exam. Let's move on to the next question. During the first sprint of a new project, a scrum master had an important business meeting at the same time as the daily stand-up meeting. What should the scrum master do in this situation? A skip the stand-up meeting and attend the business meeting instead or B ask the cross functional team to postpone the stand-up meeting and C cancel the stand-up meeting. We can hear not considering C. you should not cancel this standup meeting because you are not available. Okay, so here we can eliminate C very easily. D ask the cross functional team to record the standup meeting in order to watch it later. Okay, the first piece of information that you need to keep in mind is that the scrum master is not required to attend the standup meeting all the time. It means that if the project manager or the scrum master is not available, that's fine. they can skip the stand-up meeting and already know that the stand-up meeting is for the team members to sync their work, assess their progress, etc. So the project manager or the scrum master should not always be there and that's fine if they have something else they can skip it in some cases. So I see here that A is the right option. And if you ask the team members either to postpone or to record the meeting, it entails that as a scrum master you should not miss any standup and that's not good. So if you are a scrum master or if you are project manager in agile context, try to let your team run their standups alone from time to time. Don't always be like the supervisor who should be always there. Right? So let's check the right answer. Yes, the right answer is A. The scrum master should ensure that the cross functional team holds the standup meeting every day as planned but they are not required to attend it. The development team is responsible for conducting the stand-up meeting. Okay, let's move on to the next question. An organization is used to following this scrum framework where sprints are four weeks long. One day the organization's chief technology officer CTO approached the scrum master and argued that a 4-week sprint is too long and it would be better to reduce it to 2 weeks. Convinced by the CTO's suggestion, how could the scrum master make this change? Okay, here the CTO suggested that instead of 4 weeks, it should be 2 weeks. And the scrum master said, "Okay, it makes sense. Let's check how the scrum master communicate this to the team." They announced to the entire scrum team that the CTO who has formal power has decided that the sprint should only last 2 weeks. Okay. You think this is correct? I don't see in the scenario here that the CTO used their formal power. So I'm suspecting this is right because here there is it would be better and here suggestion. So there is no order or direction to change from 4 weeks to 2 weeks. So that's why I think A is not a very good option. Let's check B. Let the product owner and the team members know about the intention to reduce the sprint length and involve them in the decision. That's very good. I like this very much. Involving them in the decision and the product owner and the team members are composing the whole scrum team with the scrum master. So here B is making sense and much more better than option A. Let's check C. Inform the team of the sprint length change during the sprint retrospective and provide them with arguments here. There is no consulting of the team. It's an order from the scrum master. It doesn't work like that. What if the product owner doesn't like this change or what if the team also doesn't support this change? This is not good actually taking unilateral decision. Okay, let's check D. engage an agile coach to assist in this transition since having someone external to the team will most likely reduce any resistance. I don't think here having someone external imposing the decision to the team is going to help anyway. So among all the options B is the best option. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is B. The scrum master needs to make sure to involve the entire team or whoever the change is likely to impact when tailoring a process. Okay, let's move on to the next question. After taking over a project, the project manager notices that team members are not interacting and collaborating with each other as they are supposed to. What team building activities could the project manager opt for? Here we need to select two options. Let's check a purchase gym memberships for all team members and let them choose the gym and the training hours that work best for them. If you do that, is there any interactions between team members? I don't think so because every team member will go to the gym next to their house and they will not meet each other or do the gym with each other. So there is no team building activities here. That's why A I don't think it's considered as a team building. Let's check B. Buy a pingpong table and allow the team to use it during breaks. So here pingpong requires two players and these two players need to interact with each other. That's why I think this is good. See go hiking with the project team. This is also considered as a team building since going as a team is going to foster the relationship with the team. D offer them tickets to watch new movies. This is also could be individual activities and they will not improve team bonds. So here D is not correct and the right answer in our case should be B and C. Let's confirm yes. Buying a pingpong table or going on a hike are both considered team building activities. Team building enhances the team's social relations and builds a collaborative and cooperative working environment. If team members go separately to the gym or to the movies, there will be no interaction between them. Thus, interpersonal relationships will not be improved. These activities are just considered motivational factors, not team building activities. The project manager is in charge of an educational project. After analyzing the power level of each of the projects for stakeholders, the project manager finds out that Monica and Marcus have high power while Ravis and Sergio have low power. For a deeper insight, the project manager created the stakeholder engagement assessment matrix below. This is how it looks the stakeholder engagement assessment matrix. Based on this analysis, which stakeholder should be prioritized in terms of engagement? Is it Monica, Marcus, Ravi or Sergio? Okay, here according to the scenario we are having, Monica and Marcus have high power while Ravi and Sergio have low power. So in terms of engagements, you need to focus on people who have high power. So we could eliminate easily Ravi and Sergio right away and C and D should not be the right answer. Your focus should go to the high power stakeholders. Okay, let's check the status of our high power stakeholders. We have Monica neutral and Marcus unaware. So what do you think should be prioritized? The person who is neutral or unaware? Actually you need to focus on Marcus first because the person who is unaware is big big big problem. At the start of the project we know that we start with identifying stakeholders and define what information to share with these stakeholders. And if you find that one of the key stakeholders is unaware that's a big problem because later on maybe if you share with them the information related to the project it's going to be too late. So here the first person that you need to focus on is Marcus and B should be the right answer. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is B. The priority in engagement should be given to stakeholders with a high level of power. Having an unaware stakeholder with a high level of power is more dangerous than a neutral stakeholder with high power since the first type can cause a lot of trouble when they become aware at a later stage of the project. Okay, excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A project manager developed the work breakdown structure by decomposing the work into three levels. The supportive PMO points out that three levels are not enough and recommends breaking down the project into five levels. So here we have the project manager did three. The PMO suggested five levels of the composition. What should the project manager do? A take into consideration the PMO's recommendation and decompose work as needed. Okay, here it looks good because we have a supportive PMO and we know that PMOs are divided into three categories. Supportive PMO which is also known as consultative PMO and the second type is controlling PMO and the third type is directive PMO. In the case of supportive PMO, it provides support in the form of ondemand expertise, templates, best practices, access to information etc. So here based on this information the project manager can take into consideration their recommendation and they can decompose work as needed. So if the project manager thinks that three is good then it's good. If they think that five is good then they could decompose it further to five levels. So here this is what it means as needed and I think A is a good answer so far. Let's check the different other options. B establish common ground by decomposing the UBS into four levels instead here as if the PMO is imposing and the project manager tries to establish a common ground. Actually there is no need here to try to resolve this problem by compromising because here B is as if the project manager is doing a compromise there is no need for compromise decompose work as needed since we are in a case of supportive PMO okay see since the PMO has a high level of control that's wrong stop here supportive PMO is not having high level of control don't waste your time reading the rest Okay. D. Since the PMO has a low level of control, the project manager should ignore. If you see here ignore, most probably that's wrong. And in this case, it's wrong. You should not ignore recommendations. Take them into consideration and do the correct course of action. That's why among all the options, A is the best. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is A. The details and level of the composition of the WBS depend on the project size, complexity and level of control needed to effectively manage the project. There is no standard or a predefined number of a de composition level. Okay, let's move on to the next question. A project manager is assigned to lead a project to construct a building extension within the organization. The project team has meticulously planned the project scope, schedule, and cost. The project is funded and about to start when an executive from another department ask the project manager to formally assist him in delivering a website as part of their rebranding project. What should the project manager do next? Here we have a project manager who is having a construction project and the project is about to start and another manager from another department asks him to formally assist in delivering a website which is another project rebranding project. Here a explain to the executive that the website work is out of the project's scope because you are working on a construction and this is a new project. So explaining to the executive that this is out of the project's scope is fine. It's correct. Nothing wrong with it. So let's check the other options. B. Review the impact of the new task on the project schedule and cost. The new task is part of the rebranding project. how you going to add it to your project and try to make it part of your project. I think this is not making any sense. So B should be wrong. C ask the executive to submit a change request for the added scope similar to B. This is not an added scope. This is not of the project you are having the construction project. So C is not making sense either. They assign a team member to help the executive create the website. This is also not logical. Even though this executive is having high power, maybe you have to win their support for your project, but don't do irrational actions and don't use the project resources for anything outside of the project scope. I repeat that. Don't use your project resources for anything outside of your project. This is a big mistake. And if this happens, you could have a negative consequences even after the end of the project. So be careful. D is a big red flag. And the right answer should be A. Let's confirm. Yes, the construction of a building extension and the creation of a website are two different projects. Therefore, the project manager should explain to the executive that the website work is out of the construction projects scope. Okay. All right. Let's move on to the next question. During a retrospective meeting, some AI team members stated that it sometimes gets confusing to check who is working on each work item and at what stage they are. What can the project manager do to solve this problem? Let's check the different options. Coach the team on how to be more attentive during the daily stand-up meeting. Okay. Well, that's a bit difficult to teach them how to be attentive to the daily standup meeting to memorize all the status of all the tasks. That's very difficult actually. So, I don't think A could resolve the problem. So, let's check B. Guide the team on how to use the canban board and update it regularly. This is making more sense actually because we know that if we are having a canban board like that maybe this is to-do this is doing this is testing for example this is done and you have a long list here here etc. So you cannot memorize all the status of all these tasks. But if you teach the team members to use the canban board correctly and update it regularly then they will know for sure what stage these items and they will also know who is working on these tasks. So I think it's better to guide the team on how to use the canban board, how to assign themselves to the work that they are working on and once they finish they move it to the other stage in stock and all this stuff. This is actually making more sense. I think B is a good answer but let's check quickly C and D. Send a daily status report to all team members to remove the impediment. I think this is not practical each day to send a status report especially that you are working in agile and we know that agile uses information radiators and you need to leverage the information radiator which is usually the canban board. Okay, let's check the the project manager shouldn't do anything. So usually if you encounter this this is wrong because you are in face of a situation and you need to resolve it. So how you should do nothing. So since agile team are self-organizing even though they are self-organizing the project manager should remove impediments. So you need to act you need not just watch. Okay. So based on all of these I think B is the best option. Let's check the right answer. Yes the correct answer is B. In the case of unclear work assignments or work progress, the project manager should help their team by using a canban board to display the flow of work. Okay, excellent. Let's move on to the next question. In order to ensure that the agile team is crossfunctional, the project manager hires a new team member who is more inclined towards testing tasks. After a few days, the new member informs the project manager that he is unable to do his work properly because he doesn't have the necessary permission to access part of the code. What should the project manager do next? Okay, here if we analyze this issue, we find out that the team member is having a blocker is having an impediment and we already know that the project manager when overhearing such cases they should act to remove impediments. So let's check among all the options what the project manager would do. A ask the team member to raise the issue during the retrospective meeting. Okay, the retrospective meeting what we do in it. We check what went well, what we could improve, etc. We should not postpone issues until having the retrospective meeting. Retrospective is just to reflect on what has been done. Not to make it a meeting for resolving problems. When problems occur, we need to fix them right away. Okay, please remember this. This is a key when encountering such situations in agile when there is an issue we need to fix right away. Don't wait for the retrospective. Retrospectives is lessons learned and you need to keep in mind that if you face problems don't postpone them. Okay. So here A is wrong for this reason. B tell the team member to adjust the acceptance criteria of the pending tasks. Okay, here we can stop here. Okay, who sets the acceptance criteria? The product owner, right? Is it legitimate for the team member to adjust the acceptance criteria? No, the team member should not adjust the acceptance criteria by their own. Okay, here in the second part, and then inform the product owner. This is as if the product owner hey you know what I have done this I just let you know no it doesn't work like that you should not touch the acceptance criteria if you have anything related to the acceptance criteria you need to inform the product owner first ask for their permission to adjust the acceptance criteria and the product owner should say yes or no okay so that's why B is wrong let's check Explain to the team member that he cannot access the whole code due to security restrictions. Okay. If the policy of the company says that then that's fine. This is could be an answer. Here we don't have an information about this policy. So let's check D. Maybe D could be better than C. Reach out to the appropriate stakeholder to either confirm or update the team's members privilege. This is way much better because here you are taking a proactive action try to resolve the problem and check whether this team member should have access to the whole code or not. And in this case if not then the project manager should proceed with C. So if I order them D first and if the team should have access then problem resolved and everything is fine. If not then we move on to C and also inform the product owner about this and let them know that we have some restrictions and in case these restrictions could touch the acceptance criteria we inform the product owner that we need to update the acceptance criteria and we involve the product owner in the whole discussion. So the right answer based on all the information we have is D. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is D. Being a servant leader, the project manager should reach out to the appropriate stakeholder in order to verify why the new member doesn't have access to that portion of the code. Retrospective meetings are set up to improve processes rather than remove impediments. Okay, excellent. Let's move on to the next question. During a sprint review meeting, a team member demonstrated a new feature and pointed out that it took longer than expected due to missing technical documentation. Then the team member asked a senior member how to avoid this in the future. What should the meeting facilitator do? Okay, we are here in a sprint review meeting. Just be careful about the details especially when the scenario is not that long. You need to focus on the keywords. Here we are in a sprint review meeting and a team member asked a senior member how to avoid having this problem which is missing technical documentation. Let's check the different options. A let the discussion flow naturally since it's important and only intervene if the side discussion continues for too long. Should the facilitator do this? Okay, let's go back to the sprint review meeting. What we do in it? We do a demonstration. Is this part of the demonstration? If the team member explains to the other how to resolve this in the future, of course not. How to resolve this in the future should be in the retrospective meeting. So the facilitator here should intervene and do not let the discussion continue. Okay, that's why I think A is not correct. B ask the team member to reflect on how to make such improvements at another meeting. We already said that this should be part of the retrospective and here what it means at another meeting. So I think B is making sense. Let's check C. Interrupt the team member because the product owner is not supposed to know that documentation is missing. This is actually not aligned with the agile mindset where we are having a transparency and the product owner is part of the team. So that's why C is not correct. D let the discussion continue and then ask the product owner to give feedback on potential improvements. This is also not making sense because we are following a discussion which is outside of the scope of this print review meeting. The best answer is B in our case. Let's check. Yes, the retrospective meeting is the right meeting to reflect on what happened during the sprint and how to improve the implemented process. All right, let's move on to the next question. During the sprint, the scrum master asked two senior members whether the remaining work in the sprint backlog could be completed to achieve the sprint goal. The team members replied by saying that they were not supposed to track such data. What should the scrum master do next? A take disciplinary action against the two team members. Here it seems like the scrum master is taking this too personally. Actually they said that they are not supposed to track such data. Maybe they don't know because they are familiar with predictive approach for example where the project manager is actually controlling the planning etc. So a is not correct. You should not take disciplinary action for these kind of reasons. Let's check B. Take charge of tracking the sprint backlog process. Actually, scrum master should not take and charge checking the progress of the sprint backlog because this is the responsibility of the team members. So, you should not take their responsibility and do that as a scrum master. That's why B is not correct. C inform the two team members that tracking sprint backlog is the responsibility of the development team and guide them through the process. I like this option very very very much because here you remind the team of their responsibilities and also you guide them through the process. That's exactly the role of the scrum master. C should be correct. And let's check D just to confirm. As I said before, if you are in rush, stop here, take the option C and move on to the next question. But if you still have time, maybe you can check ask the two team members about the sprint backlog progress during the next standup instead. So here doesn't resolve the issue on hand because the two team members are not aware of their responsibilities. So useless to wait until the next standup and ask them again. So the right answer should be C. Let's confirm. Yes, the correct answer is C. The scrum master needs to coach the two senior team members and bring to their attention that the scrum team is responsible for tracking the total work remaining in the sprint backlog as an indicator of whether or not they will achieve the sprint goal. All right, excellent. Let's move on to the next question. A stakeholder added a user story to the product backlog. The user story seemed clear to the scrum team. However, during execution, the assigned member gets confused about one of its implementation scenarios. What should the team member do in this case? Let's check the different options. Ask the stakeholder for clarification. We know in agile that the product owner is the single point of contact for the team. So here asking the stakeholder is not appropriate even though the stakeholder is the origin of this user story. That's why I don't prefer A here. Let's check if there is better option. B ask the product owner for clarification. This is making more sense. It aligns with the principles of the agile philosophy which implies having the product owner as a single point of contact. Like I said, let's check C. Convey the confusion to the scrum master who will help get clarification from the product owner. Here as if the scrum master is a bridge between the team and the product owner, actually the scrum master is not playing such a role when it comes to product specifications, clarifications and any stuff related to the product. So the development team can reach out to the product owner, ask them directly without needing the scrum master help. Okay, the scrum master help usually intervene when it comes to processes, not to product items. All right, let's check the wait for the next standup meeting to report the issue. Here usually when you find weight for something, it is most probably wrong option. Okay. So, if you are in a hurry and you'd like to check answers quickly and you find this, try to avoid it. As an advice, in this case, wait for the next standup meeting to report the issue. Actually, we said that the standup is for syncing between the team. It's not problem solving issue. That's why stand-up meeting is not the only meeting or the only way to resolve problems. If there is a problem, we should not wait to resolve them until some dates or some meetings. We need to resolve them right away as soon as possible. Keep that in mind. And based on all the informations, B is the best answer. Let's check. Yes, during sprint execution, the product owner should be available to respond to questions raised by the development team. All right, let's move on to the next question. Shortly after joining a new organization, a project manager noted a lack of collaboration within the team. What should the project manager do to create a cooperative work environment? Let's check the different options. Conduct soft skills development training. All right, you can do training or soft skills to teach them about collaboration stuff like that. Maybe let's check the other options and see if there is any better option. Opt for a pool based system for working assignments. This is meaning a canban approach. Actually using a canban approach is not going to create a cooperative work environment. It's going to increase efficiency of the work but it's not really responding to the situation we have. Let's check see organized team building activities. This is way much better than A and B. I think team building could increase the cooperation between team members. Let's check the adopt an agile work approach. Actually, we have seen this before. We should not change the project development approach based on a single criteria. We are looking to create a cooperative work environment. We know that agile could help but we don't know about the project itself. Maybe the project could not be working in agile way. That's why D is not the appropriate answer. And the best option among all the options we have is C. Let's check. Yes, team building activities foster a cooperative working environment when continuously implemented throughout the project life cycle and especially in its early stages when barely any relationships among team members are developed. Carrying out soft skills training could improve your team's ability to better communicate and collaborate, but it's less effective compared to team building activities. Okay, let's move on to the next question. An organization hires an external agile coach as part of its transformation project. In the final report, the agile coach mentions that measures should be taken to enable agile teams to be crossunctional. How should the organization proceed with the agile coach recommendation? Here the recommendation is that the team should be crossunctional. Let's check among all the options what the organization could do. Allow individuals to collectively determine the best way to accomplish the goal of the sprint. Is this cross functional definition? Of course not. This is the self organizing concept of the team. So that's why A is not correct. B allow individuals to take part in guiding the product direction. Who directs the product? Of course, the product owner. So that's why B is not correct. Assign individuals who possess the necessary skills to produce a functioning product. This is exactly what the organization should do. The correct answer should be C. D. Empower individuals to approve the potentially shippable product increment. Who approves the potentially shippable product increment? The product owner. So here crossf functional doesn't mean that you allow the team to take the responsibility of the product owner. And the right answer should be C in our case. And a cross functional team must possess the necessary competencies for creating a product or a service and dependently without relying on other members outside of the team. Congratulations. I wish that you enjoyed this full course and wishing you that you see this congratulations in your real exam very soon. Have a good luck in your PMP exam and wishing you a great career in project management.